# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Andrey Sadovykh (editor), Dragos Truscan (editor), Wissam Mallou - CyberSecurity in a DevOps Environment_ From Requirements to Monitoring (2023, Springer) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - Papers that identify one or more security vulnerabilities in industrial PLC 
softw
are. 
• I2. Papers that are published in conferences or journals. 
Exclusion 
criteria are listed as follows: 
• E1. Papers which are duplicative or outdated versions of prior papers. 
• E2. Papers which are not peer-reviewed. 
• E3. Papers which are secondary or tertiary studies. 
• E4. Papers which are not accessible in English. 
• E5. Papers which are not accessible in full text.
1 https:// ieeexplore.ieee. org 
2 https:// www. scopus. com/ 
12 E. P. Enoiu et al.
• E6. Papers which address security concerns in ICS but not explicitly in relation 
to PLCs.
Security Relevance Score: 4
Word Count: 617
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:22

---

Papers that identify one or more security vulnerabilities in industrial PLC 
softw
are. 
• I2. Papers that are published in conferences or journals. 
Exclusion 
criteria are listed as follows: 
• E1. Papers which are duplicative or outdated versions of prior papers. 
• E2. Papers which are not peer-reviewed. 
• E3. Papers which are secondary or tertiary studies. 
• E4. Papers which are not accessible in English. 
• E5. Papers which are not accessible in full text.
1 https:// ieeexplore.ieee. org 
2 https:// www. scopus. com/ 
12 E. P. Enoiu et al.
• E6. Papers which address security concerns in ICS but not explicitly in relation 
to PLCs. 
1.4.2.6 Query Search 
After the search string and digital libraries are deﬁned, the search string is used in 
those digital libraries to get the results from the automatic search. The following search strings are the speciﬁc ones for each library: 
IEEE Xplore: (“PLC*” OR“Programmable Logic Controller*”) AND (security) AND (“vulnerabilit*” OR “risk*” OR “threat*”) 
Scopus: (“PLC*”OR“Programmable Logic Controller*”) AND (security) AND (“vulnerabilit* ” OR “risk*”OR“threat*”) AND (LIMIT-TO (OA , “all”)) AND (LIMIT-TO(DOCTYPE, “ar”) OR LIMIT-TO (DOCTYPE , “cp”)) AND (LIMIT-
TO(SUBJAREA ,“COMP”) OR LIMIT-TO (SUBJAREA , “ENGI”)) AND (LIMIT-TO(LANGUAGE , “English”)) AND (LIMIT-TO(PUBSTAGE ,“ﬁnal”)) AND (LIMIT-TO(SRCTYPE , “j”) OR LIMIT-TO (SRCTYPE , “p”)) 
All the studies obtained through automated searches of the libraries have been 
exported and subsequently examined in two distinct spreadsheets. 
1.4.2.7 Selection Criteria Application 
Following the elimination of duplicates, it becomes imperative to assess the pertinence of the remaining papers. Their relevancy is determined based on the 
selection criteria outlined in Sect.
1.4.2.5 . The process of selecting studies involves 
two steps: ﬁrst, applying the selection criteria to the title, abstract, and keywords, and, second, applying the selection criteria to the full text. 
1.4.2.8 Classiﬁcation, Extraction, and Analysis 
Our inclusion of domain-speciﬁc information pertains speciﬁcally to topics about industrial PLC software. The classiﬁcation framework comprises a vulnerabilities 
category, which is populated by extracting information on security vulnerabilities in industrial PLC software from the papers. Additionally, the framework encompasses both attacks and solutions categories. 
During the analysis phase of data collection, the data extracted from the primary 
studies is utilized to construct the taxonomy. Initially, the data for each category of the classiﬁcation scheme is scrutinized, and the quantity of studies in a particular 
category is determined. Nevertheless, this data is solely applicable to each individual category, and it is crucial to examine how the categories are interlinked.
1 A Taxonomy of Vulnerabilities, Attacks, and Security Solutions 13
1.5 Search Results 
In this section, we present the number of papers that remain for each stage of 
the study, starting from the digital library search to the ﬁnal set of papers, after 
outlining all the required steps and components. Figure 1.3 provides a summary of 
Fig. 1.3 Search and selection results
14 E. P. Enoiu et al.
Table 1.3 Search ResultDigital library Search results 
IEEE XPlore 122 
SCOPUS 432 
Total 554 
this process, and a thorough explanation of the process is provided subsequently. 
As outlined in Sect. 1.4.2.6, the automatic search process involved the execution of 
the 
search string in two distinct digital libraries. Table 1.3 displays the results of 
our 
search, indicating the number of papers retrieved from both IEEE Xplore and 
SCOPUS. Our search criteria matched 122 papers in IEEE Xplore and 432 papers in SCOPUS. By combining the results from both sources, we obtained a total of 554 
papers. 
We executed the removal of duplicates, which led to the elimination of 84 
papers. 
Initially, we applied the selection criteria to the papers’ titles, abstracts, and 
keywords, resulting in the exclusion of 400 papers. Most of the excluded studies 
either did not meet I1 or met E
