# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Andrey Sadovykh (editor), Dragos Truscan (editor), Wissam Mallou - CyberSecurity in a DevOps Environment_ From Requirements to Monitoring (2023, Springer) - libgen.li
Chapter: 6 - In the subsequent stage, we applied the selection criteria to the full text, excluded 34 studies, and retained 36 studies. The majority of 
the papers excluded in this stage either met E5 or E6. Backward snowballing was 
conducted to add more papers to the ﬁnal set to extract more relevant results. From the 36 papers, we collected 578 studies. From these 578 studies, 493 were excluded 
based on the title and keywords, and 67 were excluded based on the abstract. From 
applying the selection criteria to the full text, 15 studies were excluded. In total, from the backward snowballing process, we obtained three additional papers. Since 
the snowballing process was the last process before the classiﬁcation framework 
deﬁnition, our ﬁnal set of papers contains 39 studies that can be used to build this taxonomy.
Security Relevance Score: 8
Word Count: 592
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:22

---

In the subsequent stage, we applied the selection criteria to the full text, excluded 34 studies, and retained 36 studies. The majority of 
the papers excluded in this stage either met E5 or E6. Backward snowballing was 
conducted to add more papers to the ﬁnal set to extract more relevant results. From the 36 papers, we collected 578 studies. From these 578 studies, 493 were excluded 
based on the title and keywords, and 67 were excluded based on the abstract. From 
applying the selection criteria to the full text, 15 studies were excluded. In total, from the backward snowballing process, we obtained three additional papers. Since 
the snowballing process was the last process before the classiﬁcation framework 
deﬁnition, our ﬁnal set of papers contains 39 studies that can be used to build this taxonomy. 
1.6 Taxonomy Results 
In this section, we present a summary of the ﬁndings from our data analysis. We 
not only identify the different categories of PLC vulnerabilities but also explore 
the interconnections among them, as well as between vulnerabilities, attacks, and solutions. 
1.6.1 Security Vulnerabilities 
During the data extraction process, ten primary categories of vulnerabilities were identiﬁed. While some of these categories are interconnected (e.g., lack of encryp-
tion or authentication may stem from protocols’ lack of security when used on the
1 A Taxonomy of Vulnerabilities, Attacks, and Security Solutions 15
Fig. 1.4 Vulnerabilities in PLC systems 
Internet), we classiﬁed them separately as authentication, encryption, and network 
to avoid any potential bias. Additionally, this categorization allows us to see how 
many studies address networks generally versus speciﬁc areas. Figure 1.4 provides 
a visual summary of the results. 
The category with the highest number of publications is related to authentication, 
with 19 studies dedicated to this topic. This category primarily discusses the vulner-
abilities associated with hard-coded passwords, lack of two-factor authentication 
mechanisms, and absence of passwords altogether. 
The categories that receive the most attention in terms of publications are 
authentication and encryption. This is mainly because communication protocols 
used in ICS lack security features. Studies such as S4, S8, and S9 focus on this 
issue. For instance, the Modbus communication protocol, which is one of the oldest 
and most commonly used protocols in ICS, does not offer any authentication or 
encryption. As a result, an attacker can easily obtain the necessary information for a 
Modbus session to be valid (e.g., function code and address) from a network sniffer 
like Wireshark and launch an attack. Moreover, Modbus messages are not encrypted 
and are transmitted in plain text. This issue is not limited to Modbus, as other widely 
used protocols such as Proﬁbus, Proﬁnet, EtherCAT, and more also lack encryption. 
The absence of anomaly detection mechanisms is highlighted as a vulnerability 
in ﬁve studies, as they emphasize that the inability to detect unusual behavior of 
PLCs in real time can result in disastrous consequences. This vulnerability is not 
only perilous because of the critical systems that are governed by PLCs but also 
because it is challenging to identify the root cause of the attack while it spreads 
throughout the system [ 16]. 
Operating system security is identiﬁed as a vulnerability in four studies that 
focus on industrial PLC software. Similar to other operating systems, the operating 
systems used in these PLCs also have vulnerabilities that can be exploited by 
attackers. For instance, some of the vulnerabilities mentioned in these studies
16 E. P. Enoiu et al.
include the Microsoft Windows server service vulnerability (MS-08-067), the 
print spooler vulnerability (MS10-061), and the Microsoft Windows.LNK/.PIF 
vulnerability (MS10-046), as noted in S
