# Security Chapter Extract
Book: [Automotive Cybersecurity Best Practices] Auto-ISAC - Threat detection, monitoring and analysis (2019, Auto-ISAC) - libgen.li
Chapter: 7 - Security Development Lifecycle  
Guides offer greater detail to complement the high -level Executive Summary. This G uide aligns 
with the “Threat Detection , Monitoring and Analysis ” function and is made available for use by 
companies, as  appropriate for their unique systems, processes, and risks.
Security Relevance Score: 7
Word Count: 245
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:19

---

Security Development Lifecycle  
Guides offer greater detail to complement the high -level Executive Summary. This G uide aligns 
with the “Threat Detection , Monitoring and Analysis ” function and is made available for use by 
companies, as  appropriate for their unique systems, processes, and risks.  
1.2 PURPOS E 
The purpose of this Guide is to assist  automotive  industry stakeholders with identifying, 
monitoring , and analyzing vehicle cybersecurity  threats .  
This Guide provides forward -looking  guidance without being prescriptive or restrictive. The se best 
practices are:  
• Not Required . Organizations have the autonomy and ability to select and voluntarily adopt 
practices based on their respective risk landscapes and organizational structures.  
• Aspi rational . These practices are forward -looking and voluntarily implemented over time, 
as appropriate.  
• Living . Auto-ISAC plans to periodically update this Guide to adapt to the evolving 
automotive cybersecurity  landscape.   
1.3 SCOPE  
This Guide describes key considerations for companies around  vehicle cybersecurity  threat  
management efforts . It contains best practi ces and implementation guidance for companies to 
identify, monitor , and analyze  vehicle cybersecurity threats .   
Vehicle cybersecurity threat s exist or emerge in all phases of the vehicle lifecycle,  including 
design, development,  and post -production . These  phases are described in F igure 1 below.  
 Traffic Light Protocol: White  (May be shared in public forums)  
This Guide does not prescribe or require specific technical or organizational practices.  
These are voluntary and aspirational practices, which may evolve over time.  
Please see
