# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Dana Bash - America's Deadliest Election (2024, Hanover Square Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 229 - At the Varieties, the Shakespeare Club presented “the ever popular comedy Money...a promise of intellectual entertainment and thus enjoyment will happily be subservient to benevolence...” An entertainment at the Opera House raised hundreds. At the Exposition Hall a magician offered a Grand Prestidigitation Performance. A benefit by the Thespians in Alexandria included “good music, fine scenery, well selected pieces, good acting,” assuring “that our poor and persecuted citizens, yet in the Bastille will feel grateful...” At that benefit “an elegant watch” was auctioned in a raffle which raised additional funds. The ladies were encouraged to go door-to-door to solicit for the welfare of the prisoners.
While preparations for their defense were being made McEnery remained a pretender to the governor’s office. In December, from his “Executive Office” in New Orleans, he advised members of the General Assembly that his government remained in place “ready to be put in motion” the moment it received Congressional recognition. He remained optimistic that would take place during the next session. Meanwhile, although the law required the assembly to meet, “it would be useless” to do so “as no practical benefit could flow from any legislation you might enact.” But, he urged them, be ready!
McEnery traveled to Washington, DC, in late February. While the Colfax jury was being selected he went to the White House in an attempt to meet with President Grant to discuss the case. Not surprisingly, the president was unavailable. It was not known when he would be available. McEnery departed, leaving behind a petition signed by several thousand residents of Grant Parish asking for executive clemency—and laying blame for the massacre on the Radical Republicans.
Also not surprisingly, Grant ignored it.
Security Relevance Score: 2
Word Count: 608
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:58

---

At the Varieties, the Shakespeare Club presented “the ever popular comedy Money...a promise of intellectual entertainment and thus enjoyment will happily be subservient to benevolence...” An entertainment at the Opera House raised hundreds. At the Exposition Hall a magician offered a Grand Prestidigitation Performance. A benefit by the Thespians in Alexandria included “good music, fine scenery, well selected pieces, good acting,” assuring “that our poor and persecuted citizens, yet in the Bastille will feel grateful...” At that benefit “an elegant watch” was auctioned in a raffle which raised additional funds. The ladies were encouraged to go door-to-door to solicit for the welfare of the prisoners.
While preparations for their defense were being made McEnery remained a pretender to the governor’s office. In December, from his “Executive Office” in New Orleans, he advised members of the General Assembly that his government remained in place “ready to be put in motion” the moment it received Congressional recognition. He remained optimistic that would take place during the next session. Meanwhile, although the law required the assembly to meet, “it would be useless” to do so “as no practical benefit could flow from any legislation you might enact.” But, he urged them, be ready!
McEnery traveled to Washington, DC, in late February. While the Colfax jury was being selected he went to the White House in an attempt to meet with President Grant to discuss the case. Not surprisingly, the president was unavailable. It was not known when he would be available. McEnery departed, leaving behind a petition signed by several thousand residents of Grant Parish asking for executive clemency—and laying blame for the massacre on the Radical Republicans.
Also not surprisingly, Grant ignored it.









12
No one would ever know precisely how many men were murdered that day in Colfax. The newspapers estimated a hundred and fifty. Weeks later bodies were still rising to the surface of the river, and limbs were poking out of their shallow graves.
But the defendants would not be tried for murder. By law, the case was far more complicated. The federal government can bring murder charges in an extremely limited number of situations; for example, the killing of a federal judge or a crime committed on federal property. These murders did not fall under those statutes. The indictment charged the defendants with thirty-two different criminal violations which deprived the victims of their legal and constitutional rights granted by the Civil War Amendments as well as the Enforcement Acts. The legal theory was simple: killing someone prevents him from exercising his rights.
The defense didn’t accept that argument. Marr, Whitaker and the rest of the defense team felt strongly the federal government was encroaching on state business. This was a state matter, and if there was to be a trial, it should be held in a state court. These men were being used as political pawns; it was nothing more than an attempt to extend the reach of the federal government into the people’s lives. They intended to prove that the accused were law-abiding men who had been attacked while attempting to serve a warrant and therefore had the right to defend themselves.
Making the situation even more complicated was the fact that almost a year earlier, in the so-called Slaughterhouse Cases, the Supreme Court had upheld the powers of Louisiana to regulate its meatpacking industry, narrowing the application of the Fourteenth Amendment. Ironically, that case had been brought to challenge regulations imposed by Governor Warmoth. The Colfax case was viewed as a test of the power of the federal government to prosecute individuals for violations of constitutionally protected rights.
The trial began on February 23,
