# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Dana Bash - America's Deadliest Election (2024, Hanover Square Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 4 - More than two hundred of McEnery’s militiamen, many of them Ku Kluxers, overwhelmed the officers inside the two-story Seventh District station in Jefferson Parish. It was only lightly guarded as most of the men stationed there had been transferred days earlier to other posts, leaving only five patrolmen on duty.
The attackers, armed mostly with double-barreled shotguns and pistols, shot out the doors and windows, and announced they had been ordered to take control of the station by the McEnery Board of Police Commissioners. No one was hurt. The five Metropolitans inside offered no resistance; they were chased into the street and ran for their lives. The Western Union operator working in the building was forced to stay in his office.
Then the invaders began preparing for an expected counterassault. They took positions at the windows, watching for the police to try to recover the building. About midnight, General Ogden and several of his officers arrived to congratulate them. They were in great spirits, as the opening salvo of the plan had been successful. “You are the leading fist in the coup,” Ogden told the men occupying the building, “the knife that tests the flesh.” You must hold the precinct, he said, reminding them that tomorrow he would lead three hundred men in an attack on the Cabildo.
Finally, after shaking every man’s hand, he left to prepare for the next day.
The Western Union telegrapher was ordered to wire the news to the North. Within hours the New York Times reported “A Riot in New Orleans.” The New York Herald was far more dramatic: “Blood Runs in the Streets of New Orleans.”
McEnery’s men waited at the windows, guns cocked. Throughout the night reinforcements straggled in. But there was no sign of the police.
Security Relevance Score: 4
Word Count: 3428
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:58

---

More than two hundred of McEnery’s militiamen, many of them Ku Kluxers, overwhelmed the officers inside the two-story Seventh District station in Jefferson Parish. It was only lightly guarded as most of the men stationed there had been transferred days earlier to other posts, leaving only five patrolmen on duty.
The attackers, armed mostly with double-barreled shotguns and pistols, shot out the doors and windows, and announced they had been ordered to take control of the station by the McEnery Board of Police Commissioners. No one was hurt. The five Metropolitans inside offered no resistance; they were chased into the street and ran for their lives. The Western Union operator working in the building was forced to stay in his office.
Then the invaders began preparing for an expected counterassault. They took positions at the windows, watching for the police to try to recover the building. About midnight, General Ogden and several of his officers arrived to congratulate them. They were in great spirits, as the opening salvo of the plan had been successful. “You are the leading fist in the coup,” Ogden told the men occupying the building, “the knife that tests the flesh.” You must hold the precinct, he said, reminding them that tomorrow he would lead three hundred men in an attack on the Cabildo.
Finally, after shaking every man’s hand, he left to prepare for the next day.
The Western Union telegrapher was ordered to wire the news to the North. Within hours the New York Times reported “A Riot in New Orleans.” The New York Herald was far more dramatic: “Blood Runs in the Streets of New Orleans.”
McEnery’s men waited at the windows, guns cocked. Throughout the night reinforcements straggled in. But there was no sign of the police.



The Historic New Orleans Collection, 1974.25.9.312


The next morning Metropolitan Police Superintendent Algernon Badger told reporters he had no intention of taking action to reclaim the Seventh Precinct, as he had no use for it even if he should recapture it. In fact, he told the Times-Democrat, “He regarded the ‘bold capture’ as rather farcical, and not worthy of receiving serious attention.”
In reality, he was not going to split his forces. The rumors that had been circulating for weeks had suddenly gotten more specific: Tonight is the night. Kellogg is to be overthrown tonight. Supposedly during the afternoon one of the large political clubs told McEnery they would put four thousand men in the streets. Badger took it all seriously. The seizure of the Seventh Precinct was a diversion, nothing more, and it would be dealt with on his timetable.
Throughout the day he moved his men into positions. Weapons were checked and loaded. A sizable force guarded the armory.
At dusk McEnery’s men began gathering in small groups on the streets near police stations throughout the city. Most of them carried arms. Shotguns. Pistols. Rifles. Breechloaders. Swords. Bayonets. And, as the Picayune reported, “...other warlike instruments.” They were loosely organized, united only by their anger. Although some of these men had fought in the war, many of them were not soldiers. These were ordinary citizens, some of them aroused by injustice, others members of white supremacist organizations looking for retribution.
They had been driven to violence by a feeling of extraordinary unfairness. They believed they had been cheated, that the election had been rigged against them. That McEnery’s ticket had won, and Grant had imposed Kellogg on them.
But it was Henry Warmoth who had given a voice to their resentments and brought them to the streets.
One squad assembled at the base of Camp Street, another gathered at Poydras and Magazine, still others waited near the Sugar Sheds. Runners kept them in good contact with each other.
In the night McEnery’s men formed several large groups. The gaslights on Chartres Street had been turned off for several blocks, darkening the streets. At nine o’clock two detachments, somewhere between fifty and seventy-five men, advanced on the Third Precinct police station, located in the French Quarter. They marched past the station, then split into smaller groups and took positions behind shrubbery and a fence. Within minutes they caught five officers trying to reach the station and seized their revolvers.



The Parish Police Station was overwhelmed.
The Historic New Orleans Collection, gift of Mr. George Denègre, 2002.32.6 i-viii


The militia remained in that position for several minutes. Then they opened fire.
The first shots of the long night smashed through the windows of the police station. The hundred and twenty heavily armed police officers inside the well-barricaded building returned fire. They had to hold off the attackers until reinforcements arrived. No one knew how long that might take. After the first few salvos the attackers fell back to better protected places behind the St. Louis Cathedral.
General Ogden, the leader of the assault, stepped into the open. The firing stopped. “You are surrounded,” he screamed. “Surrender the station!”
While his words were still echoing through the square a single shot rang out. He was grazed in the shoulder.
News that the first shots of the insurrection had been fired reverberated throughout the city; men raced from surrounding neighborhoods to the Quarter to reinforce the militia. A large group ransacked the two gun shops on Chartres Street, Guilfoux’s and P. Baum’s, taking every pistol, every long gun and all the ammunition.
Governor Kellogg was in his office at the Mechanics Institute with General Longstreet when the firing began. A flow of telegraphs kept him aware of the movements. A crowd of armed men at Poydras Street. Moving downtown. About fifty of them. Armed men roaming throughout the city.
The police had been preparing for this night for weeks. The station had been reinforced by an additional hundred men, who would wait in the shadows until the attackers had crossed Canal Street, then follow rapidly in their rear. Kellogg and Longstreet waited. The militia crossed Canal Street. Longstreet told the governor, “I shall give the order to open on them.”
Kellogg was aware of the possible consequences. “Why, General,” he replied, “would you fire on that crowd of people at the risk of sacrificing many lives before there has been any bloodshed?”



The Historic New Orleans Collection, 1974.25.9.312


Longstreet had been through terrible events in the war. He recognized the danger of hesitation. A coup was in progress. Should it succeed, far more force would be required to save the legal government. “Yes,” he said, according to the Republican. “That’s the only way to deal with these people. The mistake Warmoth always made was in not being willing to open fire on the mob. We mustn’t fall into the same error.”
Badger was in his headquarters, receiving reports, calmly assessing the situation. At about nine thirty, he received a telegram from General Longstreet asking Are your forces moving? They have opened fire at the Third Precinct. Badger led three companies, about two hundred and fifty men, to the armory. They loaded a twelve-pound Napoleon onto a carriage, and rushed toward the stationhouse to relieve the besieged officers.
The officers carried lever-action repeating Winchesters, capable of rapid fire. The horse-drawn twelve-pounder was a lethal artillery piece. It had proved its deadly accuracy, especially at close range, during the Civil War when both Union and Confederate troops relied on it.
McEnery’s men were ready for them, hidden in several of the buildings along Chartres Street. As the officers moved steadily forward, snipers began shooting at them from second-and third-story windows, as well as from inside Guilfoux’s gun store. Badger’s men returned fire but kept heading toward the station.
One mounted officer was separated from his unit. As he turned the corner at Chartres and Toulouse, he was ordered to stop. Instead, he tried to push forward. Guns came out. “Shoot him,” people shouted, caught up in the excitement of the moment, “shoot him.” Several brave men took positions between the officer and the rioters. They backed him out of the confrontation, saving his life, then took his weapon and placed him under guard.
By ten o’clock Badger’s troops were approaching the Third Precinct. They marched in ranks of four, staying mostly in the shadows on the raised wooden sidewalks lining both sides of the streets. McEnery’s men were pinched between the officers firing from inside the stationhouse and Badger’s Metropolitan Police coming from behind. When the first Metropolitans appeared the warning was passed: “Here they come. Here they come!”
And they had a twelve-pounder with them.
As the troops moved into position on Toulouse Street, Badger gave the militia one warning, ordering them to disperse. They responded with gunfire. The Napoleon was rolled into position. Within minutes its first shot boomed through the city, the thunder echoing off buildings, shattering glass all along the street.
Too many of the men had heard that thunder too often several years earlier. They knew the carnage that gun could produce.
Incredibly, no one was hurt. Badger had fired a warning shot, a blank cartridge. But that was sufficient for many of McEnery’s people, who scattered in great disorder. Others, though, continued firing.
Badger had given them fair warning. He ordered the gun loaded with deadly grapeshot, a bag of small projectiles rather than a single twelve-pound shell. It was fired into the crowd. A dozen men went down. One man was struck in the head and fell dead on the spot.
Newspapers across the country would report every detail. A contested election had led to bodies in the streets of a major American city: the Metropolitans advanced in a skirmish line, firing as they moved forward. The McEnery men were pushed back into St. Peter Street. Their commanders screamed at them, trying to hold their line, “Keep shooting, keep shooting.”
They responded helplessly, “Give us ammunition! How can we fight without ammunition?”
A militia commander moved bravely into the middle of the street, his back to the Metros, screaming madly, “My God! Can’t I get anyone to support me?” In response, several men moved forward and continued firing.
The Napoleon boomed again. Several more men fell. Others had seen enough; they were done. They retreated.
Union infantry troops got there just before midnight. They had been ordered there by General William T. Sherman, who had telegraphed from Washington, “The President directs you to prevent any violent interference with the State Government of Louisiana.”
When the bluecoats arrived, Union Lieutenant King demanded to see “the commander of the mob.”
He was corrected. This is not a mob, he was told, but rather “the real citizens of New Orleans.”
General Ogden finally responded and told the young lieutenant his men would not engage federal troops. Sporadic firing continued for several minutes, but the battle at the Third Precinct was done.
The toll was far less than anyone could have assumed. In the furious exchange only two attackers had been killed and less than twenty of them had been wounded. Two police officers had suffered minor injuries.
The Metropolitan Police swept into Jackson Square and began making arrests. Scores of men were detained, charged and locked up.
That settled, Badger turned his attention to the Seventh Precinct. Eighty men marched the three miles toward the station on Magazine Street. They brought the Napoleon with them.
Just in case.
It had been a long day inside the building. McEnery’s men had passed the time talking, boosting each other’s confidence. The street had remained mostly quiet. Occasionally a trolley had trundled by. The only business opened on Magazine was a barrelhouse, which poured beer to a few stragglers.
At two in the morning, the Metropolitans surrounded the Seventh Precinct. Badger sent a plainclothes officer, W. H. Murphy, with several men to ask for a peaceful surrender. In response the militiamen fired on the small party. Given no choice, Badger gave the order to commence firing. The police fired into the windows. After a barrage they smashed through the bolted door. Several defenders were shot, the rest quickly dropped their weapons. One of them, Kendrick Chandler, put the stock of his weapon to the floor, its barrel pointed at the ceiling. A police officer fired wildly, his bullet ricocheting off the muzzle of the gun and into Chandler’s chest.
He was the single fatality. Most of McEnery’s men fled through back windows and a door. But thirteen men stood fast and were arrested and dragged outside.
The coup had been defeated.
The next morning armed soldiers and police officers maintained a visible presence throughout the city, just in case. Hundreds of people strolled quietly through the area around Jackson Square to look at the damage. To most of them, it seemed impossible so few men had been killed or wounded. A battle had taken place in the middle of the city. Buildings and trees were riddled with hundreds of bullet holes. Tree limbs littered the streets. Windows in the shops in the square had been shot out. Railings were broken. Shutters were gone. A hollow iron column supporting a balcony had been knocked down, presumably hit by grape, and lay splintered in the street. The balcony now hanging above it, one length missing, seemed oddly incomplete as if it had lost its balance. Inside the police station, logbooks had been hit by bullets, a stair railing was perforated and every window was gone.
Both the Bayonet legislature and the people’s legislature convened in competing efforts to impose a semblance of normalcy on the shaken city. Kellogg was ready to fight back.
Just after eleven o’clock, an estimated three hundred police officers closed the square, while an additional one hundred “picked sharpshooters” descended on Odd Fellows Hall and took possession of the building. Following orders from General Longstreet, they proceeded to arrest all the members of the McEnery legislature. Supposedly, McEnery himself was in his office there but escaped through a rear entrance. The legislators were marched to the First Precinct station, where they were locked into the drunkard cells. Those cells, according to the irate speaker of McEnery’s House, John Conway Moncure, were a “dirty, loathsome, lousy, felon’s dungeon, the stench of which made us all sick.”
Seemingly spontaneously, a crowd materialized in front of the station. In the face of the heavily armed soldiers, the mob remained subdued. The legislators were held there for a bit more than an hour before Governor Kellogg ordered them released.
They gathered again, this time in the expansive lobby of the St. James Hotel. Although no count was given, a quorum was declared. The legislature passed a resolution asking General Emory exactly who had ordered their arrest. Their question was a disguised accusation: Did federal troops illegally follow an order from a state government official? Following that, the legislature adjourned with the understanding they would reconvene when summoned by Governor McEnery, an event, local papers reported cheekily, not likely to take place anytime soon.
The people’s legislature was done. It would never meet again.
It was rumored that McEnery also had been arrested and was being held at the central police station, but that proved untrue. In fact, he had spent the day in private, at the office of a friend. A New York reporter who found him there described him as “very much depressed at the turn affairs had taken.” McEnery was in a melancholy mood, reflective rather than animated, his energy drained. Yes, he had approved the attacks, he admitted to the reporter, explaining he had no options left. At least a portion of his objective had been successful, he said; he wanted to force President Grant to take a stand, to make it clear to the American people that the federal government would use military force to impose its will on the States.
Oh yes, he said, he was terribly upset that good men had been killed and wounded, but he was not responsible for any of that. Their blood was on the hands of the opposite faction, meaning Grant and Kellogg.
He had hoped for a better outcome, he continued, but he was not done fighting “to maintain and establish his authority.” As for the future, “he contemplated only passive resistance, and acknowledged that the only success possible was to be found in the determined resistance of people to the payment of taxes or recognizing in any other manner the Kellogg authority.”
The violence was finished, he emphasized. And when he said it, undoubtedly he meant it. But he had let loose a monster that was already out of his control. He had approved violence as an acceptable means to resolve political disputes. That message reverberated throughout the state. The price paid by his supporters was small, two dead and less than twenty wounded, considering the message that had been sent.
Two dead? A small price to pay for what had been achieved: the city, the state, the entire nation had been galvanized by reports of the insurrection. They had gotten attention, they had fueled the existing debate about states’ rights, they had sent a warning. And they had no intention of stopping there.
His point made by bullets, McEnery used the attention to immediately form a central committee, with members from every parish, to resist and delay the payment of taxes. If Kellogg forces couldn’t be beaten, they would be starved of revenue.
Former Governor Warmoth was in a far more ebullient mood when the same reporter found him surrounded by friends and politicians in the office of his private secretary. With his “usual gallantry and geniality,” he said that the battle had been lost long before the previous day’s fighting, when Congress failed to act. The only remaining hope for the people of Louisiana lay with “Kellogg’s inherent treachery, which will show itself in immediate plans to sell out his present friends and allies.”
No one pointed out that was exactly what he had done, when he left the Republican party and aligned himself with elements of the Democratic party.
As for the attacks, well, in retrospect, he thought, it wasn’t a very good idea. But only because it had failed. There was an elementary political lesson to be learned: “Without the assurance of success it should not have been made.”
In case anyone doubted President Grant’s position, the White House released a statement. The president had authorized General Emory to use whatever force necessary to preserve the peace—but only after McEnery’s militia committed an overt act. Let them start it, then finish it. The official statement was unequivocal. “If the people of New Orleans are not convinced by this time that [the president] is in earnest and resolved to the discountenance all further efforts of the McEnery government to remain in power, whether de facto or de jure, it will not be his fault. The issue having been made, the administration adheres to its original position, and, right or wrong, Kellogg will be protected, if it is necessary to hedge his office with federal bayonets.”
Lost in the hullabaloo created by the attack, few people were even aware that the Kellogg legislature had taken a significant step to better defend his administration. For a politician that was not unusual. Elected officials have always used the powers of their office to strengthen their hold on it. Warmoth, for example, in his first months in office, had gotten legislation passed allowing him to run for a second term. So it was not the fact that Kellogg took action, it was what he did that was so unusual. This was literally a power grab.
On March 5, while McEnery’s militia was gathering on corners for its attack, the legislature quietly approved several acts that transformed the Metropolitan Police into the governor’s personal army. It gave him military control of the state. It was astonishing, audacious and arguably unconstitutional. And at least partially done in response to McEnery’s attempt to raise his own militia.
Act #37 made the Metropolitan Police a part of the state militia, transformed into the Metropolitan Brigade. It also allowed the force to be greatly increased in size, calling for as many as three brigades comprising as many as three thousand men. Most importantly, it put the governor in complete command, allowing him to, “whenever in his opinion there is a public exigency, order the Metropolitan Police force to be mustered as the Metropolitan Brigade...and may order the Metropolitan Brigade to perform military duty in any part of the state.”
Democratic newspapers railed against the creation of “the Standing Army of Louisiana.” It clearly was unconstitutional, the Picayune claimed, citing Article I
