# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Dana Bash - America's Deadliest Election (2024, Hanover Square Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 12 - Two hundred and sixty-four new muskets and twenty-five cases of ammunition, enough to equip an entire company, had been shipped from New York. If the delivery was intended to be secret, that had failed. Kellogg and Badger had learned all the details, and an order was issued instructing the Metropolitans to seize it.
The leak might have been intentional. Kellogg’s order was an outrage! An insult! It was exactly what the White League needed to rouse its supporters. It was the provocation for which McEnery and Ogden had been waiting. On Sunday, September 13, sympathetic newspapers published an appeal to the CITIZENS OF NEW ORLEANS. It was the long-awaited call to arms. “For nearly two years you have been silent but indignant sufferers of outrage after outrage—heaped upon you by an usurping government!... Your rights have been trampled upon until...this mockery of a Republican government has dared even to deny you the right so solemnly guaranteed by the very Constitution...
“In that same sacred instrument...it also was declared that even Congress shall make no law abridging ‘the right of the people peacefully to assemble and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.’ It now remains for us to ascertain whether this right any longer remains to us.”
Security Relevance Score: 2
Word Count: 875
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:58

---

Two hundred and sixty-four new muskets and twenty-five cases of ammunition, enough to equip an entire company, had been shipped from New York. If the delivery was intended to be secret, that had failed. Kellogg and Badger had learned all the details, and an order was issued instructing the Metropolitans to seize it.
The leak might have been intentional. Kellogg’s order was an outrage! An insult! It was exactly what the White League needed to rouse its supporters. It was the provocation for which McEnery and Ogden had been waiting. On Sunday, September 13, sympathetic newspapers published an appeal to the CITIZENS OF NEW ORLEANS. It was the long-awaited call to arms. “For nearly two years you have been silent but indignant sufferers of outrage after outrage—heaped upon you by an usurping government!... Your rights have been trampled upon until...this mockery of a Republican government has dared even to deny you the right so solemnly guaranteed by the very Constitution...
“In that same sacred instrument...it also was declared that even Congress shall make no law abridging ‘the right of the people peacefully to assemble and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.’ It now remains for us to ascertain whether this right any longer remains to us.”



Thousands of armed men gathered at the Henry Clay statue in the morning and were ordered to attack.
The Historic New Orleans Collection, gift of Mr. George Denègre, 2002.32.6 i-viii


The announcement called for people to close their businesses “without a single exception” and gather at the statue of Henry Clay on Canal Street “and in tones loud enough to be heard throughout the length and breadth of the land, DECLARE THAT YOU ARE, OF RIGHT OUGHT TO BE, AND MEAN TO BE FREE.”
Placards announcing the time and place of the rally were posted in every part of the city. The details were printed on long narrow strips of paper which were pasted to the wooden curbs at every intersection.
The revolution was scheduled to begin at eleven o’clock.
No one doubted what was coming. Kellogg sent a telegraph to the president requesting “aid to protect Louisiana from domestic violence.”
Grant responded by ordering the 3rd United States Infantry, stationed in Brookhaven, Mississippi, to proceed immediately to New Orleans. General John Brooke requisitioned a train; if he moved quickly enough, the troops might get to the city in time to prevent the coup.
The White League had to delay them. Penn recalled Henry Warmoth’s epic race with Pinchback. As the former governor had done, he wired supporters at the railroad asking for assistance. He got it: while Brooke’s train was stopped at a way station, problems suddenly developed in the locomotive’s driving gear—problems that could not quickly be repaired. By the time a replacement engine reached them, it was far too late.
Protestors began filling the streets early in the morning. By eleven o’clock a massive, boisterous crowd had gathered around the Clay statue. Speakers addressed them from the balcony of the Crescent Billiard Hall. They told the people what they had come to hear: Republicans in Washington had imposed their government on them; that government was taking away their constitutional rights, especially those granted by the Second Amendment.
The crowd loved every minute, every word. They cheered as newly-appointed Judge Robert Marr told them that McEnery had been elected governor by more than 10,000 votes and Penn lieutenant governor by a 15,000-vote margin. Therefore, Marr shouted, “the existing government of the state is a usurpation, the result of violent abuse of judicial functions and sustained by force!” In such a situation there is nothing more loyal and legal than the people rising to reclaim their rights.
By acclamation they adopted a resolution demanding Governor Kellogg’s immediate resignation. A five-member delegation was authorized to present it to him. They proceeded to Kellogg’s quarters in the Hotel Royal, but he was gone, having taken refuge in the heavily guarded Custom House.
The committee instead met with Judge Henry Dibble, who relayed Kellogg’s response: the governor would be delighted to speak with the representatives of “peaceful citizens” but would not meet with anyone while “large bodies of armed men” were menacing the city.
Judge Marr returned to the balcony. The crowd quieted. This was the moment for which they had been preparing for two years. Kellogg had refused to meet with the committee, he reported. The crowd roared in response, “Hang him! Hang him!” Over and over, “Hang him! Hang him!”
There were no options left. Go home, Marr told them, get your guns. Come back. Fight.
John McEnery was waiting in Vicksburg, Mississippi, where he had gone supposedly to “visit friends.” That left Penn in charge of the rebellion. Penn issued a proclamation. “Through fraud and violence the government of your choice has been overthrown and its power usurped,” it read, concluding, “The right of suffrage is virtually taken away from you by the enactment of skillfully devised election and registration laws... I do hereby [call] upon the militia of the state...to arm and assemble under their respective officers for the purpose of driving the usurpers from power.”
Victor Hugo’s stirring story of the French Revolution, Les Misérables, had been published in the United States in
