# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Dana Bash - America's Deadliest Election (2024, Hanover Square Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1699 - The first costumed parade through the streets of New Orleans had taken place in 1837 and since then had grown into a grand carnival. It was celebrated with masked balls and lavish dinners. Officially halted during the war, the parades had begun again in 1866.
By 1870, Mardi Gras’s luster had returned. That year a new, all-white krewe, the Twelfth Night Revelers, introduced the Lord of Misrule, tossing trinkets to the crowd and extending the carnival back to the Christmas holidays by holding a ball in early January. “The population of the city turned out to see the procession,” the Picayune reported. “All along the route the streets, banquettes and balconies were full of people... The young and the old, the rich and the poor came out to watch the curious array and unite in the festivities it occasioned.”
No one enjoyed it more than Warmoth. Not only did it unite the people, it reinforced the feeling that the city had survived the devastation and was regaining its national prominence. Warmoth was a highly visible presence throughout the celebration, smiling broadly, enjoying the social whirl—and reminding people that he had made it all possible.
It helped restore hope. And that benefited Warmoth.
He was at the height of his power, but his political enemies were already working to stop him. First, they had to deny him reelection. In their efforts to accomplish that, they set in motion a chain of tragic events unlike anything ever seen in American history.
Security Relevance Score: 2
Word Count: 1571
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:58

---

The first costumed parade through the streets of New Orleans had taken place in 1837 and since then had grown into a grand carnival. It was celebrated with masked balls and lavish dinners. Officially halted during the war, the parades had begun again in 1866.
By 1870, Mardi Gras’s luster had returned. That year a new, all-white krewe, the Twelfth Night Revelers, introduced the Lord of Misrule, tossing trinkets to the crowd and extending the carnival back to the Christmas holidays by holding a ball in early January. “The population of the city turned out to see the procession,” the Picayune reported. “All along the route the streets, banquettes and balconies were full of people... The young and the old, the rich and the poor came out to watch the curious array and unite in the festivities it occasioned.”
No one enjoyed it more than Warmoth. Not only did it unite the people, it reinforced the feeling that the city had survived the devastation and was regaining its national prominence. Warmoth was a highly visible presence throughout the celebration, smiling broadly, enjoying the social whirl—and reminding people that he had made it all possible.
It helped restore hope. And that benefited Warmoth.
He was at the height of his power, but his political enemies were already working to stop him. First, they had to deny him reelection. In their efforts to accomplish that, they set in motion a chain of tragic events unlike anything ever seen in American history.









3
In George Washington’s September 1796 Farewell Address, written with the assistance of Alexander Hamilton and James Madison, the president warned against the rise of political parties. “All combinations and associations...serve to organize faction,” he cautioned, “to give it an artificial and extraordinary force, to put in the place of the delegated will of the nation the will of a party, often a small but artful and enterprising minority of the community...[They] are likely, in the course of time and things to become potent engines by which cunning, ambitious and unprincipled men will be enabled to subvert the will of the people and to usurp for themselves the range of government...”
It was an incredibly prescient speech, but while it was greatly admired, no one paid any attention to his warning.
The concept of a political party, a group of people uniting around one or more issues, was relatively recent. Before the Revolutionary War the colonies were divided into Whigs and Tories. The Tories disappeared with Washington’s victory while the Whigs evolved into a political party, and a new group, the Federalists, emerged in opposition. As the nation was being created there were intense debates about what form it would take. How tightly would the states be bound together? How much power would the states cede to the central government? What alliances would it build with the great European powers? Especially England?
Groups coalesced around issues, creating parties to represent them. Among the first great political debates was whether America should support the French Revolution. Liberty! Equality! Fraternity! were slogans that resonated with many Americans. Then, when the new French Republic declared war against Britain, Thomas Jefferson strongly favored providing support. But the Federalists wanted to stay free of foreign entanglements.
Those Federalists who agreed with Jefferson joined with the Whigs to form the Republican party.
Even as Washington published his warning against political parties, the Federalists and Republicans were already promoting very different visions of America. The Federalists, led by Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton, favored a stronger central government, including the creation of a Bank of the United States to fund the building of a nation.
Thomas Jefferson and James Madison’s Republican party advocated a national government with limited power. They opposed the creation of a large standing army, fearing it would make the national government stronger than the individual states.
Washington had been elected as an Independent, but that was not to be repeated. In 1796 Republican Jefferson faced Federalist John Adams. Adams won by three electoral votes.
While there were two national political parties, there was a far greater abundance of opinion. The parties were neither big enough nor strong enough to encompass all the competing ideas. Those original political parties had the uniformity of mercury: they were continually evolving and splitting into smaller parts. Splinter groups emerged from both the Federalists and Republicans. As a result, in 1824 four Republicans were on the presidential ballot, each representing a different faction of the party. Four years later another Republican offshoot, this one led by 1812 War–hero Andrew Jackson and Martin Van Buren, formed the Democratic party. Democrats supported free trade with Europe, a strict interpretation of the Constitution and state sovereignty.
This new party then generated offshoots of its own. Disaffected Democrats joined with remnants of the Republican party to create the Whig party, which advocated protectionist economic policies, a national bank and a stronger national government.
For the next few decades, the Democrats and Whigs essentially established a two-party system, both electing presidents, until 1854, when abolitionist Whigs joined with northern Democrats to form the Republican party, which was created to abolish slavery. Meanwhile, Southern Democrats wanted slavery legally recognized nationally.
In 1860 Republican Abraham Lincoln faced Democrat Stephen Douglas. But Douglas refused to campaign strongly enough against abolition, so Southern Democrats nominated their own candidate, former vice president John Breckinridge, ultimately splitting the party vote. Lincoln’s victory sparked the Civil War.
By 1870 the two parties were more strongly entrenched than ever before. Everybody knew what they stood for. Republicans were the proud party of Lincoln, the party of northerners, abolitionists and Black citizens. Republicans believed in a strong central government. Democrats, which included most former Confederates, supported states’ rights and limited suffrage for freed slaves.
Rather than ending the rancor between North and South, between Republicans and Democrats, the war and advances in technology and transportation may have made the friction even worse. The telegraph had brought the world closer together than ever before. The nation was connected coast-to-coast, allowing news and opinion to be shared more rapidly than had previously been possible. The completion of the transatlantic cable in 1866 put America and Europe in almost instantaneous communication. News of events on the continent, which once took weeks to be reported, now could be transmitted the same day they took place.
The increased ability to spread the news and the expanding diversity of opinion were reflected by the incredible growth in newspapers across the nation. By 1870 there were an estimated 4,500 local newspapers, with literally dozens more opening weekly. Every sizable town had at least one local paper.
The 1869 Golden Spike ceremony at Promontory, Utah, officially united the country by transcontinental railroad, and new routes were being rapidly opened in every state.
As a result of this progress more people had more access to more opinions than ever before possible in history. One consequence of that was that extreme, outlier points of view were able to attract more supporters, so while there were only two major political parties, each of them again split into factions and had to deal with internal battles over their stance on issues.
Nowhere was this truer than in Louisiana. A diverse population gave the state its unique character as well as its varied and competing interests. Although Republicans held a clear majority, due largely to newly enfranchised freedmen, the party was an unmanageable tangle. The coalition Warmoth had managed to knit together to win election had been ripped to shreds. His fight to overturn the one-term rule had done tremendous damage.
Lieutenant Governor Dunn began maneuvering to control the Black vote. In response, Warmoth tried to gain some support from disaffected white Democrats by appointing white men to state positions, which cost him more Republican voters.
Dunn, Senator William Pitt Kellogg, US Marshal Stephen B. Packard and Grant’s brother-in-law James Casey, whom the president had appointed to the lucrative position of collector of the port, formed the “Custom House” wing of the party. It was named after the building in which Packard, the leader of the group, had an office where they often met. At that time the imposing Custom House was the largest building in the United States.
The fact that Packard, Kellogg and Casey were federal employees made them immune from any pressure Warmoth could apply. He couldn’t attack Dunn either, who had earned a reputation as an unusually honest politician, without alienating a large number of Black voters.
The struggle for power between Warmoth and this Custom House group was not only about their positions on issues, money and power. It was personal. Politicians often have egos that overwhelm other aspects of their personality. It has been said that the phrase shy politician is a contradiction in terms. There are altruistic politicians, men and women who dedicate their talents to improving the lives of others. From reports, Lieutenant Governor Oscar Dunn was one of those people. But there also are many who enter politics for opportunity, attention and affection. For at least some of them, affection is a distant third. That might have defined Governor Henry Warmoth.
For people like that, winning a political fight can become more important than the satisfactory resolution of an issue. Defeating people who criticize you, who don’t show the proper respect, can provide overwhelming satisfaction.
The battle for control of the party publicly erupted at the Republican convention in
