# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Dana Bash - America's Deadliest Election (2024, Hanover Square Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 16 - More than a thousand people were waiting at the Jackson Railroad depot when his train pulled in. He knew exactly how charged the situation was: these supporters were ready to do whatever he commanded. He made a few restrained remarks from the caboose platform, urging them to demonstrate their newly gained freedom by showing moderation and justice in their actions. Additional crowds lined the streets as his carriage took him directly to the State House.
There was great pressure on him to resist Grant’s decree. This wasn’t an insurrection against the United States, his supporters emphasized, they were putting in place the government that had been elected two years earlier. They were righting a terrible injustice. White Leaguers claimed a hundred thousand men from North Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas, Texas and Alabama had pledged to “rule or ruin,” many of them already on their way. That force was sizable enough to hold the State against the US Army, maybe even sufficient to ignite another war. Kellogg supporters warned ominously, “A very few hours will decide whether the United States flag will be fired on once more or not.” Even Jefferson Davis, the former president of the Confederacy, recognizing the possibility that the violence would spread, refused to comment.
Several of McEnery’s closest advisers urged him to move quickly, to capture Kellogg and occupy the Custom House before Grant’s army arrived in force. But his military commander Ogden was firmly against it. Penn remained neutral. McEnery had used force in the past—he had directed the March riots, for example—but this time he hesitated. There was little doubt his supporters were willing to fight; if the leaders of the rebellion were to “get up a statement declaring that the moon was made of green cheese,” the Times wrote, “and that the sun revolved around the earth, half the bankers and merchants of the city could be dragooned into signing it.”
General Emory reached the city the same night. He set up headquarters at the St. Nicholas Hotel. Early the following morning he began a steady stream of meetings with McEnery, Penn, Ogden and city business leaders. Those men asked for some recognition of their grievances, suggesting new elections or a constitutional convention. Emory listened politely to their pleas, then flatly demanded they comply with Grant’s decision: surrender all the State property, disband their forces and go home.
He gave them no hope of any compromise. Surrender. Go home.
Throughout the day, troops continued pouring into the city. Infantry, cavalry, artillery and three gunboats began taking up positions. Any brief edge the insurgents might have had disappeared completely.
McEnery knew his supporters would fight for their cause. He also knew they would lose. Almost a hundred thousand good Southern boys had been killed in the recent war; there was no reason for more men to die in a hopeless fight. He told General Emory, “We have neither the power nor inclination to resist the Government of the United States.”
The insurrection was done. All that was left was formality and logistics. At precisely six o’clock on the evening of September 18, General Brooke walked into the governor’s office. McEnery and Penn stood to welcome him and shook hands. According to witnesses, “The Governor then stated to General Brooke that he gave him the possession of the State Capitol and all other State buildings...
“General Brooke merely bowed in acceptance.”
McEnery, who was described as trembling and nearly overcome with emotion, then read his statement defending the rebellion, making sure reporters wrote down every word, telling his men to stand down. “Our people could bear the wrongs, tyranny, annoyance and insults of the usurpation no longer,” he read, “and they arose in their might, swept it from existence and installed in authority the rightful government...”
But the fight was done, he concluded. Go home. Then he added ominously, take your weapons with you.
The attempted revolution ended quietly. After finishing his statement, the governor, lieutenant governor and the several other prominent citizens in the room quietly withdrew, “leaving the Capitol of Louisiana in the possession of the United States Government.”
Outside, reported the Picayune, “Not a cheer or groan was heard” from the large crowd who had assembled. Instead, “Every face wore a look of bitter disappointment and the citizens of our downtrodden state turned away in sorrowful silence to seek their homes.”
Perhaps if they had known what was to follow, they might not have been so downcast.
Security Relevance Score: 6
Word Count: 2809
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:58

---

More than a thousand people were waiting at the Jackson Railroad depot when his train pulled in. He knew exactly how charged the situation was: these supporters were ready to do whatever he commanded. He made a few restrained remarks from the caboose platform, urging them to demonstrate their newly gained freedom by showing moderation and justice in their actions. Additional crowds lined the streets as his carriage took him directly to the State House.
There was great pressure on him to resist Grant’s decree. This wasn’t an insurrection against the United States, his supporters emphasized, they were putting in place the government that had been elected two years earlier. They were righting a terrible injustice. White Leaguers claimed a hundred thousand men from North Louisiana, Mississippi, Arkansas, Texas and Alabama had pledged to “rule or ruin,” many of them already on their way. That force was sizable enough to hold the State against the US Army, maybe even sufficient to ignite another war. Kellogg supporters warned ominously, “A very few hours will decide whether the United States flag will be fired on once more or not.” Even Jefferson Davis, the former president of the Confederacy, recognizing the possibility that the violence would spread, refused to comment.
Several of McEnery’s closest advisers urged him to move quickly, to capture Kellogg and occupy the Custom House before Grant’s army arrived in force. But his military commander Ogden was firmly against it. Penn remained neutral. McEnery had used force in the past—he had directed the March riots, for example—but this time he hesitated. There was little doubt his supporters were willing to fight; if the leaders of the rebellion were to “get up a statement declaring that the moon was made of green cheese,” the Times wrote, “and that the sun revolved around the earth, half the bankers and merchants of the city could be dragooned into signing it.”
General Emory reached the city the same night. He set up headquarters at the St. Nicholas Hotel. Early the following morning he began a steady stream of meetings with McEnery, Penn, Ogden and city business leaders. Those men asked for some recognition of their grievances, suggesting new elections or a constitutional convention. Emory listened politely to their pleas, then flatly demanded they comply with Grant’s decision: surrender all the State property, disband their forces and go home.
He gave them no hope of any compromise. Surrender. Go home.
Throughout the day, troops continued pouring into the city. Infantry, cavalry, artillery and three gunboats began taking up positions. Any brief edge the insurgents might have had disappeared completely.
McEnery knew his supporters would fight for their cause. He also knew they would lose. Almost a hundred thousand good Southern boys had been killed in the recent war; there was no reason for more men to die in a hopeless fight. He told General Emory, “We have neither the power nor inclination to resist the Government of the United States.”
The insurrection was done. All that was left was formality and logistics. At precisely six o’clock on the evening of September 18, General Brooke walked into the governor’s office. McEnery and Penn stood to welcome him and shook hands. According to witnesses, “The Governor then stated to General Brooke that he gave him the possession of the State Capitol and all other State buildings...
“General Brooke merely bowed in acceptance.”
McEnery, who was described as trembling and nearly overcome with emotion, then read his statement defending the rebellion, making sure reporters wrote down every word, telling his men to stand down. “Our people could bear the wrongs, tyranny, annoyance and insults of the usurpation no longer,” he read, “and they arose in their might, swept it from existence and installed in authority the rightful government...”
But the fight was done, he concluded. Go home. Then he added ominously, take your weapons with you.
The attempted revolution ended quietly. After finishing his statement, the governor, lieutenant governor and the several other prominent citizens in the room quietly withdrew, “leaving the Capitol of Louisiana in the possession of the United States Government.”
Outside, reported the Picayune, “Not a cheer or groan was heard” from the large crowd who had assembled. Instead, “Every face wore a look of bitter disappointment and the citizens of our downtrodden state turned away in sorrowful silence to seek their homes.”
Perhaps if they had known what was to follow, they might not have been so downcast.









15
In May 1869, during the debate over ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment, which granted Black men the right to vote, a large crowd gathered in New York’s Steinway Hall to demand it be expanded to include women’s suffrage. Escaped former slave Frederick Douglass defended the Amendment’s limitations to members of the Equal Rights Association—among them Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. “With us,” he told them, “the matter is a question of life and death. It is a matter of existence...
“When women, because they are women, are hunted down through the streets of New York and New Orleans; when they are dragged from their houses and hung upon lamp-posts; when their children are torn from their arms and their brains dashed out upon the pavement; when they are objects of insult and outrage at every turn; when they are in danger of having their homes burned down over their heads; when their children are not allowed to enter schools; then they will have an urgency to obtain the ballot equal to our own.”
Black Americans, Douglass explained, were risking their lives when they cast a vote.
And as the election of 1874 approached, that right was being challenged not just in Louisiana but in Alabama, South Carolina, Texas and Mississippi. This election would be a referendum on Grant. On Reconstruction. On states’ rights. On the use of federal troops to enforce federal law. And ultimately, on the expansion of civil rights.



The contested election of 1872 led to an insurrection known as the Battle of Liberty Place.
The Historic New Orleans Collection, 1974.25.9.226


Republicans had won the Battle of Liberty Place. A day after McEnery’s surrender, Kellogg walked back into the governor’s office, accompanied by General Brooke, and without fanfare resumed his duties. But the war would continue at the ballot box. Ironically, while the White League had been defeated in the streets, it had emerged stronger than ever. Its bloody resistance had captured the imagination—and the hearts—of people throughout the state and far beyond its borders. In New York, Chicago, Cincinnati, St. Louis and all the great cities of America, newspapers wrote about the League and quoted its leaders. And in the South, membership was booming. Republicans may have controlled New Orleans, but the White League had expanded its domination of rural Louisiana. In those parishes, they would decide who would vote.



The fighting ended with the White League in control of the government, and its leaders addressed the crowd from the balcony of the St. Charles Hotel.
The Historic New Orleans Collection, gift of Mr. George Denègre, 2002.32.6 i-viii


Governor Kellogg tried to limit the League’s growing power by appointing loyal Republicans to supervise the registration process. As part of that effort, he challenged the right of Louisiana’s six thousand to eight thousand naturalized citizens—many of them Democrat-conservative voters—to vote. He suggested providing two ballot boxes, the second one specifically for that group, isolating their ballots until the court could decide their eligibility. The chairman of the Democrat/Conservative Registration Committee, Edward Burke, was furious. The longtime feud between the two men finally erupted a few days before the election.
Late in the afternoon of October 30, as Kellogg’s carriage was proceeding slowly up Canal Street, it was hailed by Burke near Basin Street. According to the Republican, Kellogg leaned out and extended a friendly hand; according to the Democratic Picayune, Kellogg “smiled sarcastically and with his finger made a gesture of derision.” Then Major Burke either grabbed Kellogg’s hand and tried to pull him from the carriage, striking him with his whip as he did, or climbed into the carriage and hit Kellogg with a cowhide whip. In response, all the papers agreed, the driver whipped the carriage forward, throwing Burke to the ground. Kellogg drew his pistol and fired one shot, while Burke fired five wide shots at the governor as his carriage raced down Canal Street.
If it was an assassination attempt, rather than a nasty altercation that went out of control, it failed. Burke voluntarily surrendered to police. Within an hour Kellogg sent word that Burke should be released and the incident forgotten.
Once again, election day in Louisiana reportedly was calm. Reportedly. The White League had been preparing for months, warning Republicans in general and freedmen specifically what might happen if they tried to vote. The lack of violence on election day—and in the days following—was evidence that intimidation had succeeded. There was no way of calculating how many hundreds or thousands of Black voters were too fearful to go near the polling places not guarded by federal troops.
The spirit of Liberty Place had spread throughout the former Confederacy. Democrats, after being thoroughly defeated in several postwar elections, were poised to make a massive comeback. Local campaigns around the country focused on the financial crisis of 1873, Grant’s Reconstruction policies and, in several regions, unhappiness over the new Amendments. For the first time in almost a decade Democrats sensed victory—and nothing was going to stand in their way. In Eufaula, Alabama, for example, after a minor confrontation at a polling place, White Leaguers opened fire on Black voters. Within minutes more than seventy-five freedmen had been wounded, seven had been killed, and hundreds more were driven away from the polls. In town after town across the South there was widespread intimidation, ballot boxes were stolen or broken open, and votes were thrown away or burned.
The result was a massive Democratic victory. Democrats flipped an incredible ninety-four seats in the 293-member US House of Representatives, gaining control for the first time since the beginning of the Civil War. Republicans managed to retain control of the seventy-member Senate, whose members were appointed by state legislatures, though the Democrats won nine seats.
Throughout the South this extraordinary result was celebrated as the end of Reconstruction. Northern domination was done! Finished! It had taken a decade, but the South had risen from the ashes that Sherman’s army had left in its wake. The series of events that had begun with the contested election two years earlier—which included the political maneuvering, the uprisings, the massacres, the coup attempts, street battles and finally the founding of the powerful White League in Louisiana’s ironically named Grant Parish—had culminated in this political earthquake.
After all that, it seemed improbable that the situation could get even worse. But it did, creating a contradictory and seemingly bizarre situation that might accurately be described as a military-enforced democracy.
In Louisiana, Democrats gained two Congressional seats; incredibly, though, Opelousas native Charles Edmund Nash was elected the state’s first Black member of Congress. But once again the makeup of the state legislature would be determined by the Returning Board. Although an attempt had been made to create a reasonably neutral Board, it was faced with the same issues—fraud, intimidation, cheating, and disputed, missing and illegally added ballots—that had plagued the Board during the election two years earlier. This time though, the Board members’ lives were in danger. They were, wrote the Republican, “The object of constant and unjust attacks...absolute threats, meant to intimidate them into making their returns, not according to the facts and the law, but as the Democratic party and the press have predetermined.”
The Returning Board acknowledged it had an impossible task. If it followed election laws strictly, it reported, “so many of the polls would have been thrown out that there would have been no election in the State.”
Perhaps for their personal safety its members finally decided there was only one possible outcome: a tie. It declared fifty-three Republicans and fifty-three Democrats elected, with five disputed seats to be decided by the legislature when it convened in January.
For President Grant, the election was a personal as well as political disaster. A united Southern bloc could derail his dream of a third term in office. Anticipating that this confrontation in Louisiana would lead to more violence, Grant sent General Sheridan on a tour of Southern states. It was Sheridan who had originally been in command of Reconstruction in Texas and Louisiana, so it was fitting that he would try to hold it together. For the media, this was described as much as a pleasure trip as a political one, but the hope was his presence would temper passions.
Former governor Henry Warmoth had spent the entire campaign in Washington, away from the headlines, but actively involved in the process. He helped plan strategy and advised Democratic candidates. Looking ahead to his own political future, Warmoth had strongly opposed White League attempts to resegregate the races, particularly in education and public transportation. As a result of Warmoth’s public statements, the editor of the conservative Bulletin challenged him to a duel. Warmoth later contended the real cause of the editor’s bitterness was the fact he had awarded the state printing contract to the Republican rather than the Bulletin. Whatever the reason, Warmoth accepted the challenge; it was to be pistols at ten paces. As dueling was illegal in Louisiana, they agreed to meet in Mississippi the following Monday.
American politics had been reduced to a duel to the death.
Two days before the scheduled fight, Warmoth was walking on Canal Street, having been to his lawyer’s office to make out his will. As two women passed, he raised his hat in salutation—and suddenly was brutally attacked. Without warning, Dan Byerly, the Bulletin’s manager, began beating him with a thick walking cane. Byerly was a large man with a gray beard who, despite losing the use of one arm in the war, was still stout and strong. His first blow opened a horrid gash on Warmoth’s head, and blood began flowing. Byerly hit him again and again until the cane split. He tossed it away and threw Warmoth down on the raised wooden sidewalk, then jumped on top of him.
“Seeing him endeavoring to draw what I thought was a pistol,” Warmoth later said, “I drew out my pocket knife.” It was a four-inch spring knife, which snapped open. Warmoth began stabbing his attacker over and over, in his side, in his gut. Three times, four times, five times—until a Metropolitan Police sergeant pulled the men apart.
Byerly got to his feet, then collapsed. He was rushed to the hospital.
Warmoth was arrested and taken to Parish Prison on Orleans Street. The former governor was covered with blood—his own as well as his assailant’s.
Byerly was mortally wounded, his spleen pierced with two large gashes. He died later that night.
Warmoth spent four days and nights in prison. The former governor’s cellmate was a gambler who had been convicted of killing a woman and was sentenced to be hanged.
A steady parade of politicians and the leading businessmen of the city visited him. An estimated five hundred people paid their respects to the accused murderer, among them Kellogg, McEnery, Penn, Lieutenant Governor Antoine and Judge Dibble, as well as Louis Wiltz, the White League mayor of New Orleans.
Many of those same people also attended Byerly’s funeral.
The media could not help comparing this to the historic 1804 duel in which Vice President Aaron Burr shot and killed Alexander Hamilton. Burr was charged with murder in New York and New Jersey but fled to the safety of Washington, DC, where he became the first indicted murderer to preside in Congress.
At the coroner’s inquest, witnesses testified Byerly had planned the attack. Several men testified that before buying the cane he had tried to borrow one. “He took hold of my cane,” a man named John Vairen told the prosecutor. “I said, ‘You do not want that cane.’ He said, ‘Yes, I do. I want to give a damned rascal a caning with it.’”
After hearing numerous witnesses, the judge ruled that Warmoth had acted in self-defense, and he was released without consequence.
When the Louisiana legislature met in January, it seemed like events were repeating themselves, like the State was stuck in a political conundrum for which there was no solution. Once again, the question was which candidates would be seated. The only difference between the previous election and this one was the numbers; rather than the entire House, there were only five disputed seats. But with those five seats came control of the otherwise evenly divided chamber—and the State.
This time, though, the Democrats had guns.
The battle for the House began on January
