# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Dana Bash - America's Deadliest Election (2024, Hanover Square Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1862 - It created a national sensation. Soldiers on both sides had carried cheap editions in their knapsacks throughout the war, passing it from hand to hand. Confederates even began referring to themselves as “Lee’s Miserables.” Hugo’s tale of patriots manning Parisian barricades to fight for freedom had captured the imagination of the oppressed, making it the bestselling novel of the time.
In the early afternoon of September 14, 1874, more than six thousand White League supporters began barricading streets in the city of New Orleans. Camp Street was blocked with logs and barrels. A wall of horsecars stretched across St. Charles, the pavement in front of it pulled up to create a formidable ditch. Whatever materials could be found were utilized: lumber, wagon wheels, broken glass and advertising pillars. Iron guttering was weaved into a twisted barrier at Carondelet Street. Guards were stationed at the main intersections, and only people replying to a challenge with the correct countersign were permitted to pass. Heavily armed White Leaguers hid in buildings along Canal Street. General Ogden set up headquarters on Poydras Street.
Security Relevance Score: 6
Word Count: 2739
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:58

---

It created a national sensation. Soldiers on both sides had carried cheap editions in their knapsacks throughout the war, passing it from hand to hand. Confederates even began referring to themselves as “Lee’s Miserables.” Hugo’s tale of patriots manning Parisian barricades to fight for freedom had captured the imagination of the oppressed, making it the bestselling novel of the time.
In the early afternoon of September 14, 1874, more than six thousand White League supporters began barricading streets in the city of New Orleans. Camp Street was blocked with logs and barrels. A wall of horsecars stretched across St. Charles, the pavement in front of it pulled up to create a formidable ditch. Whatever materials could be found were utilized: lumber, wagon wheels, broken glass and advertising pillars. Iron guttering was weaved into a twisted barrier at Carondelet Street. Guards were stationed at the main intersections, and only people replying to a challenge with the correct countersign were permitted to pass. Heavily armed White Leaguers hid in buildings along Canal Street. General Ogden set up headquarters on Poydras Street.



Most of the main streets were barricaded with carriages, streetcars and timbers and were heavily patrolled.
The Historic New Orleans Collection, gift of Mr. George Denègre, 2002.32.6 i-viii


Kellogg, Casey and other government officials remained secure in the Custom House. They were protected by a company of federal troops, who took defensive positions behind a barricade made from boxes of floor tiles. State militia commanded by General Longstreet and two Metropolitan battalions dug in on both the north and south sides of the massive building. Several hundred more policemen were stationed inside the Third Precinct station. They were supplemented by dozens of civilian “volunteers,” many of them just released from prison and issued guns and ammunition.
By early evening General Brooke’s 3rd Infantry was back on track, chugging toward the city at full speed, but still hours away.
All told, more than fifteen thousand armed men were getting ready to fight for control of the city, and with it the entire state of Louisiana.
They also had an audience. Hundreds of excited, curious spectators had turned out to see what was going to happen. Many people still refused to believe it had come to killing. As troops began maneuvering, they rushed to find safe places from which to watch the fighting. It was an astonishing moment, comparable only to the first days of the Civil War. This time, though, American citizens were taking up arms against American law enforcement officers and state militia.
Slightly after two o’clock, General Ogden dispatched a company to seize City Hall. At about the same time General Badger ordered a hundred and eighty infantry and twenty mounted troops, armed with two twelve-pounders and a Gatling gun, to clear Canal Street.



The battle raged through the streets of New Orleans for several hours.
The Historic New Orleans Collection, gift of Mr. George Denègre, 2002.32.6 i-viii


The first shots of the Battle of Liberty Place were fired about two hours later.
Several dozen White Leaguers had advanced along the levee, hidden by bales of cotton and hay, intending to outflank the Metropolitans’ battle line. When they were in place, about three hundred men began moving toward the Custom House. Badger waited patiently, willing to let them come to him. When they got within range, he gave the order: fire. His men opened up with their Gatling gun and artillery.



Sharpshooters hid behind cotton bales on the levees.
The Historic New Orleans Collection, gift of Mr. George Denègre, 2002.32.6 i-viii


Seconds later the White Leaguers behind the bales on the levee returned fire.
In an instant, downtown New Orleans had become a battlefield.
Badger was stunned. Where did those men come from? The gunfire devastated his ranks. In the first minute eighteen men went down. He called desperately for reinforcements, then boldly stepped forward to rally his troops. Three bullets tore into his body.
Ogden ordered his men on Canal Street to press the attack. The Metropolitans were in disarray. Leaderless, they began retreating, many of them dropping their weapons and running. With a great rebel yell, the battle cry of the Confederacy, White Leaguers raced forward; the defenders were driven back, beaten, fleeing through the Custom House and out the rear doors down Decatur Street.
General Badger was left lying desperately wounded in the street. While the fight still raged, he was surrounded by angry Leaguers. Suddenly, an officer stood over him, protecting him. Badger was a well-respected man, honored by soldiers for his “cool self-reliance and unflinching courage.” The officer waved his sword, threatening to kill the first person who touched the general. Soon other men came running up with a mattress and carried him off the battlefield. He was taken to his home, where his leg was amputated.
General Longstreet was far luckier. His horse was shot out from under him, but he was not seriously hurt.
The entire battle lasted several hours; the shooting ended when Brooke’s 3rd Infantry finally arrived and formed a line on Canal Street, driving back the insurgents. But the body count was high: twenty-one White Leaguers had been killed, and at least several dozen had been wounded; eleven defenders were dead, and at least sixty wounded. Several innocent bystanders also had been shot; newspaper reporter J. M. West was killed.
The fighting was done, but the siege had just begun. The White League occupied City Hall, the arsenal, the parish prison, as well as recovering the crates of firearms taken by the police from the Mississippi. Two thousand guns stored in the arsenal were handed out to the militia. The last defenders of the State House abandoned the building after being warned by Penn that if they were still there at sunrise “he could not be responsible for the result.”
His men also seized telegraph lines, cutting off communications between US Marshal Packard and the attorney general in Washington, while allowing the White Leaguers to spread their version of events to the rest of the country. There were some holdouts. Federal troops protected Kellogg and several hundred other people who had found refuge in the Custom House. About a hundred and twenty-five members of the state militia, led by the wounded Captain Lawler, occupied the Third Precinct station house. They were heavily armed, with guns, two cannon and a plentiful supply of ammunition. Lawler was determined to hold out.
Early in the evening Penn wired McEnery “I am in complete possession of the city and State government. Come down.”
Penn also issued a reassuring statement to the city’s Black residents. “Rest assured,” it read, “that no harm is meant toward you, your property or your rights... We war against thieves, plunderers and spoliators of the State, who are involving your race and ours in common ruin...”
The night passed peacefully. Armed White Leaguers patrolled the city. The barricades were removed from the main thoroughfares, and streetcar service resumed.
On the morning of September 15, newspapers throughout the South proclaimed, “The war is over. Louisiana is free and peace reigns throughout the city. The arsenal, with 5000 stand of arms, fifteen pieces of artillery, Statehouse and all police strongholds, with the entire police and militia forces, surrendered to the citizens this morning. No blood today.” Kellogg’s defenders were granted amnesty; they laid down their arms and went home.
But Kellogg, General Longstreet and several other Republican leaders remained in the Custom House, protected by federal troops, trying to figure out how to proceed. Kellogg’s only hope, he knew, was support from President Grant.
The White House remained silent.
For McEnery’s victorious supporters it was a day of celebration. Thousands of jubilant people wandered through the streets, sharing their joy. No one wanted to go home. When it was announced early in the morning that the troops inside the State House had surrendered without a shot, they responded “with a show of rejoicing that went heavenward that will never be forgotten.”



Metropolitan Police officers were captured, stripped of their weapons and uniforms, and released.
The Historic New Orleans Collection, gift of Mr. George Denègre, 2002.32.6 i-viii


Inside the besieged Third Precinct station house, Captain Lawler accepted the impossibility of his situation. Throughout the night, as his wounds were treated, men had slipped out of the building. When he surrendered his sword to White League Colonel Angell only five men were with him. The once-vaunted Metropolitan Police department had been defeated.
“The Day of Riot and Blood,” as the Republican referred to it, was done, but with ten thousand armed men, two-thirds of them, according to the media, “illiterate roughs, boys and irresponsible men brought in from the country and plentifully supplied with whisky,” roaming the streets, maintaining the peace was difficult. A cordon of soldiers with fixed bayonets took positions in front of the governor’s mansion, where Mrs. Kellogg had stayed alone, and were serenaded by “drunken rowdies yelling filthy imprecations.”
Late in the afternoon, an estimated twenty-five thousand people turned out to watch Lieutenant Governor Penn publicly inaugurated as acting governor on the State House gallery. Bands played, flags waved, and fifteen hundred men, displaying some of the artillery captured in the armory, paraded through the streets, from Bourbon to Chartres, from Court to Toulouse, before a wildly cheering crowd. Some of those men had even taken their Confederate jackets out of storage for the occasion. After being sworn into office, the new governor began naming supporters to official positions: within an hour every office was filled. General Ogden was named attorney general, Detective Tom Boyland became superintendent of police, and there was a new auditor, new superintendent of education and new fire chief. New judges were appointed, and plans were announced to convene the McEnery legislature, perhaps as early as the following week.
The leading citizens sent a telegram to Grant, asking for his approval. “Kellogg government completely deposed. Perfect confidence restored... Not a single case of lawlessness. The c——d population and all other citizens perfectly secure in their lives and property... As loyal citizens of the United States, we confidently rely on you for the recognition and guarantee of the government under McEnery and Penn...”
The Picayune, essentially the official organ of the insurgents, warned Kellogg supporters not to try to organize or demonstrate. If any of their white leaders tried to instigate riots, “Let them be shot down like dogs and brutes they are.”
Outside the city the reaction was not as peaceful. In Grant Parish, one of the men released on bail after the Colfax Massacre killed two Black men. In other areas the remaining Republican officeholders were warned to resign or be forced out—just like Kellogg.
Kellogg finally spoke publicly. Meeting with a reporter from the Vicksburg Herald in the basement of the Custom House he spoke frankly, with only a hint of defeat in his words. He regretted not asking for federal assistance a week earlier, he admitted, but he had never believed the citizens would rise up against him. “I did not want bloodshed,” he pleaded. “I wanted this trouble left to the ballot box; I intended to give the people a fair election at every hazard...throughout the State.
“I will abide by the decision of the people of Louisiana, in this matter—if a fair and equitable election can be had...” Claiming he had directed the occupants of the State House to surrender rather than risk more blood, he added, perhaps wistfully, “I think if the people knew and understood me there would be no animosity felt against me.” As for dealing with the insurrection, “I will now abide by the decision of the President... I am going to remain in this city. My estate is here: I like the people, soil and climate, and I want to dwell here.
“I have done them [the citizens of Louisiana] no wrong, and I want to tell them so.”
The funerals began the next day: Frederick Mohrman, shot through the heart while leading his section in the gallant charge... A. M. Gantier, the first man to fall... Sam B. Newman Jr., whose funeral train stretched several squares in length... Major William Robins, cut off at the early age of thirty, battling for the redemption of the state... As some of the families of the fallen men lacked the funds to properly bury them, people were urged to offer donations.
The details of how men died depended on which side of the fighting the teller was on. According to the Fusion New Orleans Times, for example, the well-known reporter J. M. West was standing innocently on a corner taking notes when he was shot by someone firing from the Custom House. The New Orleans Republican claimed West, who had previously been imprisoned for treasonable conduct, saw a man killed in hand-to-hand combat with a Metropolitan and tried to grab the wounded policeman’s gun. As he did, the officer stabbed him with a bayonet and fired at point-blank range, and both men died.
Slowly, the city resumed its natural pace. Its leading industry, the Cotton Exchange, closed at noon in an expression of support for the new government and sympathy for the heroes of Liberty Place. Some of the courts opened, watched over by armed White Leaguers; in the Third District Court, Judge Monroe ascended to the bench, replacing Jerome Meunier, “who had been occupying the court for the last year.” The Eighth District Court, which the legislature had closed, was revived, and Judge Elmore was appointed to run it. The churches were filled with parishioners offering thanks. At the Academy of Music, Sheridan and Mack gave a blackface performance, although admittedly the theater was barely filled as most women did not yet feel safe on the streets.
The takeover of the government proceeded mostly peacefully and orderly. No one had even touched the filled money boxes on the streetcars. The only visible destruction was at the governor’s office: the windows were thrown open, and records, papers and documents were flung onto the streets and trampled by the revelers. And while some of the surrendered Metropolitans were treated roughly, the only major crime took place in the Sixth District, where people broke into the office of the tax collector and blew open his safe; fortunately, he had given the money to the auditor several days earlier, and the safe was empty.
Almost lost in the celebration was the somber news from Washington. Penn had wired the president pledging “unswerving loyalty and respect” for the federal government, promising property and officials would be protected, and asking Grant “to withhold any aid or protection...from the enemies of Republican rights and of the peace and liberties of the people.”
His plea was ignored. This was a national crisis. The entire front page of the New York Times was filled with news of the insurrection. “It is considered in official quarters that the extraordinary proceedings in Louisiana do not concern that State alone, but all the States in the Union...if countenanced by the General Government might become a precedent in other sections of the country...and might introduce a system which would substitute military power for legal forms in the conduct of State Administration.”
The president and his cabinet met for several hours. Grant finally decided he could not allow Kellogg’s administration, which had been recognized as the legally elected government by the judicial system, to be violently overthrown. He issued a proclamation acknowledging “that turbulent and disorderly persons have combined together to overthrow the State government of Louisiana...” and citing his constitutional obligation to “call forth the militia of any other State or to employ such part of the land and naval forces...for the purpose of suppressing such insurrection,” he commanded “such turbulent and disorderly persons to disperse and retire peacefully to their respective abodes within five days and to submit themselves to the laws and constituted authorities of said State.”
Five days. Grant ordered General Emory to proceed to New Orleans with an estimated five thousand troops to enforce this decision. The president also dispatched three gunboats to offer assistance if needed. Emory was ordered that under no circumstances was he to recognize the insurgent government. He also was informed that about $750,000 owed to the state’s creditors was being held by the Louisiana National Bank, and the Penn government was not permitted to withdraw any funds.
John McEnery got to the city at nine o’clock the night of September
