# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Dana Bash - America's Deadliest Election (2024, Hanover Square Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1867 - There no longer was any attempt at compromise. It granted the right to vote to Black men and prohibited ex-Confederates from holding office. President Johnson vetoed it, warning it would “operate against the white race.” Congress overrode the veto. Union General Philip Sheridan was put in command of the Military District of the Southwest, which included Louisiana and Texas, until a new civilian government could be elected. Sheridan ordered a massive effort to register all legal voters, then scheduled a convention to draw up a new state constitution.
Eighty thousand voters—among them an estimated seventy thousand newly registered Black voters—elected ninety-eight delegates to that convention. Almost half of those delegates were Black, ninety-six of them were Republicans.
There was no longer any need or desire to find a compromise. The Confederacy had lost the war and with it a way of life. The new state constitution reached much further than the end of slavery, imposing a new social order on the South: it granted full citizenship to Black men and outlawed segregation on public transportation and in restaurants and classrooms.
The Confederacy’s greatest fear had become reality: their former slaves had won the right to vote and the beginnings of equality had arrived. As the Black-owned New Orleans Tribune wrote, “We want to ride in any conveyance, to travel on steamboats, dine in any restaurant or educate our children at any school.”
In April 1868, as the attempt to impeach President Johnson for his lenient Reconstruction policies was underway in Washington, a massive majority of primarily Black Louisiana voters ratified the state constitution and elected twenty-five-year-old Republican Henry Warmoth the new governor.
Security Relevance Score: 4
Word Count: 2750
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:58

---

There no longer was any attempt at compromise. It granted the right to vote to Black men and prohibited ex-Confederates from holding office. President Johnson vetoed it, warning it would “operate against the white race.” Congress overrode the veto. Union General Philip Sheridan was put in command of the Military District of the Southwest, which included Louisiana and Texas, until a new civilian government could be elected. Sheridan ordered a massive effort to register all legal voters, then scheduled a convention to draw up a new state constitution.
Eighty thousand voters—among them an estimated seventy thousand newly registered Black voters—elected ninety-eight delegates to that convention. Almost half of those delegates were Black, ninety-six of them were Republicans.
There was no longer any need or desire to find a compromise. The Confederacy had lost the war and with it a way of life. The new state constitution reached much further than the end of slavery, imposing a new social order on the South: it granted full citizenship to Black men and outlawed segregation on public transportation and in restaurants and classrooms.
The Confederacy’s greatest fear had become reality: their former slaves had won the right to vote and the beginnings of equality had arrived. As the Black-owned New Orleans Tribune wrote, “We want to ride in any conveyance, to travel on steamboats, dine in any restaurant or educate our children at any school.”
In April 1868, as the attempt to impeach President Johnson for his lenient Reconstruction policies was underway in Washington, a massive majority of primarily Black Louisiana voters ratified the state constitution and elected twenty-five-year-old Republican Henry Warmoth the new governor.



Young, charismatic carpetbagger Henry Warmoth set in motion incredible and deadly events that would cast a shadow over America for a century.
Heritage Images/Hulton Archive/Getty Images


The fact that Warmoth had been indicted in Texas several years earlier for embezzling $21,000 did not seem to bother voters. His support for the Union and Black suffrage was sufficient for most supporters.
Oscar James Dunn, a Black plastering and painting contractor who had been born into slavery and rose to become a business owner and city councilman, was elected lieutenant governor.
Warmoth’s opponent, the former Confederate governor, Henry Allen, received 9,000 votes, even though he had fled to Mexico to avoid prosecution for his role in the rebellion.
Within days the conservative media began reinforcing the rapidly spreading belief that the election had been rigged. At that time the secret ballot did not exist. Originally, Americans had voted out loud—viva voce, it was called. After swearing on the Bible that they were who they claimed to be and that they hadn’t already voted, they told the clerk which candidate they supported, and their vote was recorded. That had evolved into a written ballot, occasionally handwritten by a literate voter, but more often conveniently preprinted by a political party listing the names of all its candidates or by a candidate himself. These “tickets” were published in newspapers or handed out to voters at the polls who then put them in a sealed ballot box. Tickets often were cleverly designed or brightly colored, so observers could see how a person had voted, and reward or penalize him for that vote.
The election was bitterly fought. According to the Monroe Telegraph, for example, Black voters had been warned, “Unless they voted (for Warmoth) they would be put back in slavery...”
The Democratic Ouachita Telegraph wrote that voters were marched to the polls from a nearby plantation “in military style by a leader who gave commands and were voted in solid [unity] for the Warmoth ticket.”
In Plaquemines Parish, the local conservative paper reported the ballot box was unlocked and unsealed, and people not registered in that district were permitted to vote. The box was guarded by three Black men holding clubs whose presence intimidated white voters, and who inspected each ballot and rejected any Democratic vote.
Anyone who objected was threatened “with arrest or with shackles.” An “old and respected freedman,” intending to vote for the Democratic candidate, “was dragged off his horse, assaulted, beaten and threatened with immediate death...”
There were a lot of newspapers in Louisiana competing for readership. Telling people what they wanted to hear was good business. It wasn’t a new tactic: partisan journalists had always played a role in elections. As far back as 1789 the Federalist Gazette of the United States set the standard with its motto, He That Is Not for Us, Is against Us. Facts often were slanted or ignored to support a party or candidate. As a result, passions were aroused, and a hostile climate was created, which sold even more papers. And Henry Warmoth’s propensity to speak out bluntly made him an easy target. The man knew how to attract attention.
Warmoth had won an almost impossible position, he complained, and only a man of his talents could deal with it. “With the taxpayers, the press and the National Administration against me,” he said later, “I was at once encumbered with embarrassments calculated to appall a timid man, and to require all the nerve, patience and forbearance I could summon to assure peace and to effect even a tolerable administration.”
In addition to the unrest created by the embittered Confederates, he faced other issues as well. The state was pretty much destitute; the government had barely collected any taxes during the war and could not pay its debts; the levees that protected New Orleans had been neglected and needed millions of dollars in repairs; the railroad system was broken; and even the penitentiary system had been dismantled. On the day Warmoth was inaugurated a rainstorm flooded the city, making streets impassable and emphasizing the lack of a decent sewer system. And Warmoth had to solve these problems while dealing with an inexperienced, inept and corrupt legislature.
But worse than any infrastructure or fiscal problems was the racial strife the city, the state and the nation were facing. It impacted every decision. Two constituencies with competing and seemingly irreconcilable needs, interests and desires somehow had to be satisfied.
Had there been a period of time during which Warmoth could lay the groundwork for a rough form of reconciliation, he might have been able to find at least the beginning of a compromise. But there wasn’t. Louisiana had been readmitted to the Union in June. A presidential election was taking place in November.
For the first time, the reunited nation would vote on the Reconstruction. Politicians made all the usual campaign promises, but what the election really came down to was racial equality. How was the country going to deal with almost four million new citizens? How were the former slaves going to be protected? The myriad other problems—for example, who was going to pay for rebuilding destroyed Southern cities—were complicated, but there were established ways of dealing with them. People could discuss fiscal policy. They could debate how much power the federal government had under the Constitution in a rational manner. But race? Racial equality was different. The concept was an emotional issue that had already shown it could tear the nation to pieces.
The two major political parties staked claims on opposite sides of the issue. Lincoln’s Republican party rejected President Johnson’s policies of reconciliation, which they believed were too soft on the defeated South. Too many parents had lost their sons in the war to forgive so easily. Instead of Johnson, the party nominated war hero Ulysses S. Grant for president. No one could ever accuse General Grant of being too soft on the Rebels. The respected speaker of the house, Schuyler Colfax, was selected to run as his vice president.
The Democrats campaigned against Republican policies that had granted political power to the former slaves. Their choice for president was New York’s popular governor, Horatio Seymour, the chairman of the party’s convention. Seymour advocated limiting the powers of the federal government and opposed the Republican Congress’s Reconstruction policies. His campaign slogan was simple and direct: This Is a White Man’s Government. For vice president, the convention nominated another Union war hero who also advocated white supremacy, Major General Frank Blair of Missouri.
There had been twenty previous presidential elections. In every one of those elections white men had gone to the polls on election day and freely cast their ballots. There had been some shenanigans, attempts at bribery, celebratory drinking, but rarely had anyone dared interfere with the right to vote. That was what made America so inspiring to the rest of the world. Citizens could freely elect their leaders. By their choices, voters had shaped the future of the young nation. Eight years earlier the American people had stood defiantly against the threatened rebellion, voting for Lincoln even knowing war might follow. More than six hundred thousand men had died because of that decision.
But the election of 1868 was different. It would be, as Warmoth predicted, “The most bitter election in American history... The whole question of Reconstruction was to be settled by this election.” There was little doubt about the outcome—Grant would win easily—if the emancipated slaves were allowed to vote.
If.
Legally, there was little conservative Democrats could do to stop them. The party represented a minority. But as they had learned the past few years, there were other measures they could take, actions that had worked in local elections to keep people away from the polls. So rather than being a referendum on the issues, the election would be decided by who was allowed to vote. The viability of the system itself was the issue. Could it be protected? Could it be trusted?
Warmoth’s election only a few months earlier had proven that at least some voters could be kept from the polls through violence or intimidation. They could be scared away. But if they still were not dissuaded from voting, then the system itself had to be attacked. Whatever it took, those ballots could not be counted. There were numerous different ways of accomplishing that, both overt and subtle.
But violence was most effective. The Democrats began by taking control of the media. Vigilantes attacked most of the seventy-three Republican newspapers in the state, ransacking their offices and destroying their presses. Several publishers were forced to flee Louisiana.
Among those who resisted was the eighteen-year-old editor of the St. Landry Progress, Emerson Bentley, a white carpetbagger from Ohio who had come to Opelousas, Louisiana, to fight for civil rights. Opelousas, about a hundred and fifty miles northwest of New Orleans, was the largest city in the sprawling St. Landry Parish. Throughout the summer there had been periodic attacks on Black families in the city. Innocent people had been murdered. In an attempt to stop the violence a meeting was held between Black and white community leaders. Among the agreements made was that the Progress would be allowed to continue publishing—but only after its editors agreed to refrain from printing any incendiary comments about Democrats.
In late September Bentley broke that promise, writing that, unlike Democrats, Republicans “do not plot in the dark; we do not assassinate inoffensive citizens or...seek the lives of political opponents...”
Days later he was teaching a class of sixty young Black students in the local Methodist church when three members of a white supremacist group, the Seymour Knights, burst into his classroom. Among them was a judge and the local constable. After forcing him to sign a retraction they began brutally whipping him. The children ran screaming from the church.
It was believed that Bentley had been killed, although he actually had managed to escape into a barn behind the newspaper office. No one knew if he was dead or alive. Black Republicans began organizing for their own self-defense. But the rumor spread in the white community that Black people were planning retaliation. According to the Democratic newspaper Opelousas Courier they intended to “reduce our town to ashes.” Supposedly a white man had been shot while searching a home for weapons, and in response “parties of mounted [white] men were sent out in different directions...to procure reinforcements...
“As soon as it was known that the negroes had commenced the fight, and spilled the first blood, the excitement became deep and strong, men rapidly made up their minds that the hour of trial had come.”
These stories stirred the violence. The specter of a Black uprising had been used for decades to terrify white residents. Stories of deadly slave uprisings in places like Santo Domingo and Virginia were well-known. Now hundreds of well-armed white men raced to Opelousas.
On September 28th the massacre began.
Twenty-nine Black men were captured that day and twenty-seven of them were killed. The next several weeks were hunting season for vigilantes. Black men and women and white Republicans were murdered, many of them buried in shallow graves, others left where they were killed. They were shot in the streets and in their homes. Those trying to flee were chased into the woods and swamps and lynched. Bentley’s coeditor of the Progress, C. E. Durand, was among the first victims; his body was left hanging in front of the Opelousas drugstore. “Each day,” reported the New Orleans Advocate, “new victims fell.”
The total number of people killed or wounded was never known. Democrats estimated there were between twenty-five and thirty deaths. Republicans claimed at least 200 dead, and a later government investigation reported 233 victims.
Bentley survived, and three weeks later arrived safely in New Orleans. But the Democrats’ goal of destroying the Republican party in one of the state’s largest parishes had been accomplished. The Franklin Planter reported Republican “clubs have been broken up, the scallywags have turned Democrats and the carpet-baggers have been run off, and their carpet-bag press and type and office have been destroyed.”
Throughout the state, the use of violence to intimidate Republicans continued right up until the election. Robed white men rode through towns and villages. In the hamlet of Holloway’s Prairie two men and a woman were taken out of an evening church service and hanged. The New Orleans Republican reported that a riot in the streets of New Orleans, “one of those scenes of bloodshed and violence which are getting more frequent day by day,” ended with four men killed.
A federal legislative committee eventually estimated that a thousand Black and white Republicans had been killed in the months before the election, and hundreds more injured and threatened.
Newspapers like the Louisiana Democrat spread the terror, warning, “Let the colored voter remember [the violence] and let him cut loose forever from Radical carpetbaggers and scalawags. His only safety lies in voting the Democratic ticket.”
The strategy worked. In Black churches, ministers urged their congregations to stay away from the polls for their own safety. Outside New Orleans few white Republicans dared to vote. As one rural voting-registration supervisor admitted, “I am fully convinced that no man on that day could have voted any other than the Democratic ticket and not been killed inside of 24 hours.”
In the parish in which Opelousas was located Grant and Colfax didn’t get a single vote; only a few months earlier 2,200 people there had voted for Warmoth.
Even when people did vote, returns were manipulated; ballot boxes were opened and stuffed or simply disappeared when being transported. Tallies were changed or inaccurately reported. There was little Governor Warmoth could do to ensure an honest election, and there is no indication that he tried.
The Democratic candidate for president easily carried the state. Grant received 33,000 votes, about half the total number cast for Warmoth only seven months earlier. Horatio Seymour won with 70 percent of the votes. Seven parishes reported that he had received 100 percent of the votes, in eight others he got only 99 percent.
Louisiana’s seven electoral votes made no difference in the outcome. Grant won the election by 134 electoral votes. Even the Democratic Times-Picayune admitted there had been considerable fraud in the election—although that paper claimed it had been committed by Republicans. “Seymour came near beating Grant,” the paper claimed, adding, “Had there been fair registration and honest voting throughout the South, Grant would have been beaten.”
The results sent a strong message: violence, intimidation and fraud worked. Four years later, that lesson would be remembered.









2
“New Orleans was a dirty, impoverished and hopeless city, with a mixed, ignorant, corrupt and bloodthirsty gang in control,” wrote Henry Warmoth, describing the situation when he was elected governor in
