# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Daniel Ventre - Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity and Cyber Defence Book (2020) - libgen.li
Chapter: 5 - Example of AI integration: the case of the CIA in the 1980s 
Computers entered the agency (the CIA) in the early 1960s, primarily for 
administrative tasks. Then, the computer emerged as a tool that could be 
used for the very mission of the agency , i.e. intelligence, and the collection 
and processing of data26.  
In the 1980s, the computer became an essential part of the agency’s 
activities, and it had to deal with increasing volumes of data that had to be 
collected, stored, analyzed and distributed within its departments27. The
Security Relevance Score: 7
Word Count: 624
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:23

---

Example of AI integration: the case of the CIA in the 1980s 
Computers entered the agency (the CIA) in the early 1960s, primarily for 
administrative tasks. Then, the computer emerged as a tool that could be 
used for the very mission of the agency , i.e. intelligence, and the collection 
and processing of data26.  
In the 1980s, the computer became an essential part of the agency’s 
activities, and it had to deal with increasing volumes of data that had to be 
collected, stored, analyzed and distributed within its departments27. The 
                                       
26 https://www.cia.gov/library/readingroo m/docs/CIA-RDP90G00993R000100130005-7.pdf. 
27 ILO 0751-86, August 29, 1986, declassified , available at: https://www.cia.gov/library/ 
readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP90G00993R000100130005-7.pdf. 
28     Artificial Intelligence,  Cybersecurity and Cyber Defense 
agency was confronted with constraint s imposed by data, computers and the 
network: large quantities of  data were produced and constant and rapid flows 
connected machines and individuals. The speed and masses of  data were two 
of the variables put forward by observe rs of the time. However, the findings 
did not call the technologies into question, as these seemed to bring only 
added value to the running of the agency and intelligence officers. The 
introduction of technology into the agency is portrayed as a dynamic 
process. In the mid-1980s, AI had not yet been adopted but the agency 
launched into a process of reflection which mobilized its various services and 
managers to envisage applications in the intelligence field.  
On the other hand, the increase in the speed and density of data production 
by the agency (in the form of reports , notes and various documents) was not 
only due to technology. There was a political and governmental will within 
the agency to produce more knowledge on a wide range of issues every day 
(800 reports were produced by the CIA in  1983; but half of the staff were 
focused on the USSR [DDI 84]). 
The treatment of AI by the American intelligence community can be 
analyzed using resources available online. Thus, the CIA offers a set of 
archival28 documents on its site. In this corpus of data, we are looking for 
information that allows us to describ e the relationship that the intelligence 
community has with a science and a set of innovative technologies, the way 
in which the institution organizes itself to tackle these new objects (creation 
of groups, designation of leaders, creation of relationships, networks, 
monitoring, etc.) and the applications envisaged for AI for the specific needs 
of intelligence, all from a chronological perspective (at what points does the 
agency take up the subject, does it act, what are the important milestones in 
this evolution, etc.). This facet of the history of the CIA has long remained 
unknown and in the shadows: 
“The CIA’s role in the applica tion of science and technology to 
the art of intelligence is far less appreciated […] However, the 
exploitation of science and t echnology has been a significant 
element of the CIA’s activities, almost since its creation. In 
1962, it resulted in the creation of the Deputy Directorate of 
                                       
28 Data accessible from: http s://www.cia.gov/library/readingroom/. A search on the term 
“artificial intelligence”, using the engine available on the page, directly identifies the corpus 
useful for our analysis.  
On the Origins of Artificial Intelligence     29 
Research, which was succeeded in 1963 by the Deputy 
Directorate for Science and Technology (renamed the 
Directorate of Science and Technology in 1965).” [RIC 01] 
Moreover, if this story takes into account the CIA’s policies of acquisition 
and ownership of technology, the relationship must also be seen in the opposite 
direction, that of the influences of  intelligence on the academic research 
community and industry. The CIA cannot be considered as a simple user 
“client”: “It is also responsible for a numb er of scientific advances” [RIC 01].  
1.5.
