# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Daniel Ventre - Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity and Cyber Defence Book (2020) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2 - The organizers of a “conference” (two-month program)  
at Dartmouth College on artificial intelligence in 1956
Security Relevance Score: 3
Word Count: 503
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:23

---

The organizers of a “conference” (two-month program)  
at Dartmouth College on artificial intelligence in 1956 

On the Origins of Artificial Intelligence     3 
While the 1956 conference was a key mome nt in AI history, it was itself 
the result of earlier reflections by key players. McCarthy had attended the 
1948 Symposium on Cerebral Mechanisms in Behavior , attended by Claude 
Shannon, Alan Turing and Karl Lashley,  among others. This multidisciplinary 
symposium (mathematicians, psychologis ts, etc.) introduced discussions on 
the comparison between the brain and th e computer. The introduction of the 
term “artificial intelligence” in 1956 was th erefore the result of reflections that 
had matured over several years.  
The text of the proposal for the “conference” of 19562, dated August 31, 
1955, submitted for financial support from the Rockefeller Foundation for 
organizing the event, defines the conten t of the project and the very concept 
of artificial intelligence: 
“The study is to proceed on the basis of the conjecture that 
every aspect of learning or any other feature of intelligence can 
in principle be so precisely d escribed that a machine can be 
made to simulate it. An attemp t will be made to find how to 
make machines use language, form  abstractions and concepts, 
solve kinds of problems now reserved for humans, and improve 
themselves.” 
The project was more successful than  expected because 10 people did not 
participate, but 43 (not including the four organizers)3, including Herbert 
Simon and John Nash. This audience wa s composed almost entirely of North 
Americans (United States, Canada), and two British people. In any case, it 
was entirely Anglophone.  
In an article titled “Steps toward artificial intelligence” [MIN 61], Marvin 
Minsky described, in 1961, these early days of AI research and its main 
objectives: 
“Our visitor4 might remain puzzled if he set out to find, and 
judge these monsters for himself. For he would find only a few 
machines (mostly ‘general-purpose’ computers, programmed 
                                       
2 Full document available at: http://www-fo rmal.stanford.edu/jm c/history/dartmouth 
/dartmouth.html. 
3 List published at http://www-formal.stanfor d.edu/jmc/history/dartmouth/dartmouth.html. 
4 Marvin Minsky imagines an alien visitor a rriving on Earth for the first time and discovering 
our computers. 
4     Artificial Intelligence,  Cybersecurity and Cyber Defense 
for the moment to behave according to certain specifications) 
doing things that might claim any real intellectual status. Some 
would be proving mathematical theorems of rather 
undistinguished character. A few machines might be playing 
certain games, occasionally def eating their designers. Some 
might be distinguishing between hand-printed letters. Is this 
enough to justify so much interest, let alone deep concern? I 
believe that it is; that we are on the threshold of an era that will 
be strongly influenced, and quite possibly dominated, by 
intelligent problem-solving machines. But our purpose is not to 
guess about what the future may bring; it is only to try to 
describe and explain what seem now to be our first steps toward 
the construction of ‘artificial intelligence.’” 
AI research is structured around new laboratories created in major 
universities. Stanford University created its AI laboratory in
