# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Daniel Ventre - Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity and Cyber Defence Book (2020) - libgen.li
Chapter: 99 - This illustration shows the differential analyzer designed by Vanevar Bush.
Security Relevance Score: 3
Word Count: 302
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:23

---

This illustration shows the differential analyzer designed by Vanevar Bush.  

24     Artificial Intelligence,  Cybersecurity and Cyber Defense 
In the 18th and 19th Centuries, several achievements made by 
automatons were presented to the pub lic. These were machines that took on 
the appearance of human beings and reproduced tasks such as writing or 
playing an instrument. There was, of course, no autonomous intelligence in 
these machines. The intelligence was that  of their ingenious designers, who 
created precise mechanics. These mach ines took their place in the literature 
and reflected the technologies of  the time: not yet called r obots, they were 
formed of electricity, mechanics, steel and sometimes steam energy (see The 
Steam Man of the Prairies  by Edward S. Ellis [ELL 68]).  
Mechanization would win in the 20th Century; the industry opening the 
way for large-scale production (e.g. Ford factories in the 1910s). What had 
until then been automatons, machines and mechanics became “robots”. Karel 
Capek introduced the term in 1921 in  a play, designating machines with a 
human appearance. Isaac Asimov wrot e, in 1941, the short story Liar! [ASI 41],  
in which he introduced the “laws” of robo tics. In the following decades, science 
fiction would give a substantial role to  the robot and would contribute to its 
global success. But science fiction also contributed to forging a particular 
image of the robot: it is often human in  appearance, it is, in any case, endowed 
with life and an intelligence that defies that of human.  
During World War II, unmanned aircraft equipped with explosives and 
thrown at enemy populations and armies were called “r obot bombs”. After the 
war, other developments were created with industrial applications. The first 
programmable arm was designed in 1954 by George Devol and Joe 
Engleberger, which was integrated into  assembly lines at General Motors in
