# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Daniel Ventre - Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity and Cyber Defence Book (2020) - libgen.li
Chapter: 15 - In the 1980s, there was talk of applications in:  
“bioengineering, chemistry, computer hardware, computer 
software, education, engineering, general purpose systems and 
AI utilities, law, manufacturing and industry, mathematics, 
medicine, the military, and resource exploration.” [LAW 84]
Security Relevance Score: 4
Word Count: 600
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:23

---

In the 1980s, there was talk of applications in:  
“bioengineering, chemistry, computer hardware, computer 
software, education, engineering, general purpose systems and 
AI utilities, law, manufacturing and industry, mathematics, 
medicine, the military, and resource exploration.” [LAW 84] 
 
 
                                       
14 Mauritius Artificial Intelligence Strategy, report, A report by the working group on artificial 
intelligence, November 2018, available at: http ://mtci.govmu.org/English/Documents/2018/ 
Launching%20Digital%20Transformation%20Strategy%20191218/Mauritius%20AI%20Strategy 
%20(7).pdf. 
15 Cryptolog  Magazine, NSA, July 1975, available at: https://www.nsa.gov/Portals/70/documents/ 
news-features/declassified-documents/cryptologs/cryptolog_11.pdf. 
18     Artificial Intelligence,  Cybersecurity and Cyber Defense 
Three decades later, the Villani repor t [VIL 18] evokes an equally broad 
field of applications: image and vide o recognition, translation, content 
recommendation, etc. The Villani report [VIL 18] is a report on the use of 
the Internet for recognizing images and videos. 
The application spectrum seems infinite ; the only limits are those of the 
imagination. Some applications that  seemed quite innovative in 2020 are, 
already in an experimental phase or were planned in the early days of AI: 
– AI in cars [TSU 79]16;  
– image analysis, detection of objects in images [NAG 79]; 
– conflict simulators (e.g. CONSIM,  Conflict Simulator , in 1971 
(Proceeding ACM ‘71  [CLE 71]17). 
Globally, research and development in AI have the common aim of 
understanding “how human cognition wo rks by creating cognitive processes 
that emulate those of human beings” [VIL 18]. 
                                       
16 “This paper describes an autom obile with artificial intelligen ce, which consists of a road 
pattern recognition unit and a problem solving unit. The vehicle is completely autonomous 
and can be driven without a human driver. The road pattern recognition unit involving a pair 
of TV cameras and a processing unit identifies obstacles in front of the vehicle and outputs 
data regarding the locations of  the obstacles. The problem so lving unit is a microcomputer 
system and determines control optimal to th e environment around th e vehicle based on the 
data. The algorithm employed in  it is a table-look-up method, in which the location of the 
optimal control is addressed in the table by key words generated from the data. The table was 
heuristically made by means of digital simula tion. The vehicle was successfully driven under 
various road environments at  the speed below 30 Km/h.” 
17 “The development and use of CONSIM (C onflict Simulator), a computer program 
designed to heuristically simulate decision ma king, is described. A typi cal example is used to 
evaluate and analyze the methodology of CONS IM. The simulation model is designed for two 
political opponents, each possessing any finite number of alternatives. The model is 
constructed utilizing technique s frequently employed in ga me theory. Probabilities are 
assigned, using a Bayesian Approach, to sets of alternatives available to the United States and 
China. Incorporated into the model is the capa bility of varying probab ilities as the Vietnam 
Conflict evolves and the re-evaluation of risks, costs, and benefits occurs. CONSIM is easy to 
use and applicable wherever probabilities may be  assigned to each alternative in a mutually 
exclusive and exhaustive set of alte rnatives in a dynamic situation.” 
On the Origins of Artificial Intelligence     19 
Definition of AI objectives/finalities Source  Year  
“The goal of AI research is to construct computer 
programs which exhibit behavior that we call 
‘intelligent behavior’ when we observe it in 
human beings.” [FEI 63] 1963 
“The long-term goal of general AI is to create 
systems that exhibit the flexibility and versatility 
of human intelligence in a broad range of 
cognitive domains, including learning, language, 
perception, reasoning, creativity, and planning.” National Science and 
Technology Council. 
Networking and Information 
Technology Research and 
Development Subcommittee 
(NITRD) (United States) 
[NET 16] 2016 
Table 1.
