# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Daniel Ventre - Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity and Cyber Defence Book (2020) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1987 - The specialized AI  hardware industry (LISP machines) collapsed.  
Period 2010-now (Spring 3) : a new phase of worldwide interest in AI. 
The period since 2011 onwards can truly be called an “AI Spring”20. This 
period of renewal can be rooted in the conjunction of three variables21: Big 
Data, algorithms and increased computer power. This is a claim that the 
Finnish authorities repeat: 
“More effective and lower-cost computing capacity, vast 
increases in the amount of data that can be used by AI, and 
more advanced AI algorithms have  all led to more intensive use
Security Relevance Score: 3
Word Count: 444
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:23

---

The specialized AI  hardware industry (LISP machines) collapsed.  
Period 2010-now (Spring 3) : a new phase of worldwide interest in AI. 
The period since 2011 onwards can truly be called an “AI Spring”20. This 
period of renewal can be rooted in the conjunction of three variables21: Big 
Data, algorithms and increased computer power. This is a claim that the 
Finnish authorities repeat: 
“More effective and lower-cost computing capacity, vast 
increases in the amount of data that can be used by AI, and 
more advanced AI algorithms have  all led to more intensive use 
                                       
20 National artificial intelligence strategy for Qata r, January 2019, available at: https://qcai.qcri. 
org/wp-content/uploads/2019/02/National_AI_Strategy_for_Qatar-Blueprint_30Jan2019.pdf. 
21 Idem . 
22     Artificial Intelligence,  Cybersecurity and Cyber Defense 
of artificial intelligence. In fact, we are experiencing a new 
spring of artificial intelligence.”22 
These three variables can also be called Big Data, Machine Learning 
(ML) and Cloud Computing [MIA 17].  
Many hopes are once again placed on the progress and contributions of 
AI, there is massive state and private funding, multi-year research and 
development programs, and implementation in all sectors of activity where it 
is possible to do so. Performance s well below expectations would 
undoubtedly be likely to slow down th e current global dynamics. This would 
then result in a drop in funding, a lack of public interest and a decline in the 
commercial activities of AI products. The general or weak AI that is 
deployed today carries within it the se eds of its own limitations, and human-
like systems, faithfully imitating intellectual capacities, are still out of reach: 
“[…] every aspect of our lives will be changed in some way. 
Today the progress of these intelligent machines seems 
limitless. Will they surpass us, or even replace us? If by 
definition a super-intelligence is capable of surpassing us in all 
areas of intelligence then our ow n efforts will become obsolete 
by then. In some ways these machines have superhuman 
abilities but in fact there is no machine out there that is as 
intelligent as a rat.”23 
Further disappointments would lead to a new downturn.  
This breakdown of AI history since the 1950s is imperfect, as it reduces 
all aspects of AI into one. Research cycles are not necessarily the same for 
industry, military programs, policy or the various application areas. Research 
has not really gone through a period of hibernation. It has continued to be 
carried out throughout the world with, of course, support in terms of funding 
                                       
22 Leading the way into the age of artificial intelligence, Final report of Finland’s Artificial 
Intelligence Programme 2019, Publications of  the Ministry of Economic Affairs and 
Employment, available at: https://julkaisut.valtioneuvosto.fi/bitstream/handle/10024/161688/ 
41_19_Leading%20the%20way%20 into%20the%20age%20of%20ar tificial%20intelligence.pdf?
sequence=
