# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Daniel Ventre - Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity and Cyber Defence Book (2020) - libgen.li
Chapter: 3 - The network of interlocutors outside the intelligence 
community 
The integration of AI into the prac tices and policies of the intelligence 
community required the involvement of a wide range of external actors.  
This approach was neither specific to  the new subject of AI nor specific 
to the intelligence community alone: 
“This country is unique in the ways in which government and 
private industry work together […] In the U.S., we rely on a 
combination of patriotism and profit motive to make our system 
work […] New technological devices and new analytical 
techniques that enable us to understand growing threats to U.S. 
and its people are based on the syne rgistic nature of the relations 
between private industry and government.” [DDI 84] 
The CIA’s approach to AI consisted of keeping abreast of the state of 
research and development, identifying actors – academic, military and 
industrial – and engaging in dialog wi th them in order to understand how 
available AI could be transferred to the intelligence community. The CIA 
engaged in dialog with interlocutors out side the intelligence community on a
Security Relevance Score: 5
Word Count: 698
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:23

---

The network of interlocutors outside the intelligence 
community 
The integration of AI into the prac tices and policies of the intelligence 
community required the involvement of a wide range of external actors.  
This approach was neither specific to  the new subject of AI nor specific 
to the intelligence community alone: 
“This country is unique in the ways in which government and 
private industry work together […] In the U.S., we rely on a 
combination of patriotism and profit motive to make our system 
work […] New technological devices and new analytical 
techniques that enable us to understand growing threats to U.S. 
and its people are based on the syne rgistic nature of the relations 
between private industry and government.” [DDI 84] 
The CIA’s approach to AI consisted of keeping abreast of the state of 
research and development, identifying actors – academic, military and 
industrial – and engaging in dialog wi th them in order to understand how 
available AI could be transferred to the intelligence community. The CIA 
engaged in dialog with interlocutors out side the intelligence community on a 
                                       
40 AIAWG Meeting Minutes, December 14, 1983,  available at: https://www.cia.gov/library/ 
readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP85-00142R000100050004-4.pdf. 
41 AIAWG Meeting Minutes, Decem ber 14, 1983, available at: https://www.cia.gov/library/ 
readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP85-00142R000100050004-4.pdf. 
On the Origins of Artificial Intelligence     37 
wide range of topics. The agency rema ined attentive, ready to respond and 
alert. For example, in 1983, some 1,200 analysts attended more than 500 
conferences on a wide range of subjects [DDI 84].  
The CIA was considering adapting knowledge and technology to its 
needs, and before even thinking a bout acquiring it (the documents do not 
specify the methods of transfer envisaged), tried to understand what was at 
stake: 
“The IASG of the IR&DC is in the process of preparing 
recommendations for Council consideration concerning where 
promising Artificial Intelligen ce technology developments are 
occurring and which may be of value for adaptation into the 
Intelligence Community.”42 
This logic guided the entire strategy of acquiring and integrating 
technology within the CIA, which aimed to save its financial resources and 
adapt existing technologies to its needs. Thus, faced with requests for 
acquisition whose justifications are not fundamentally questioned, the 
director of the CIA wrote, in 1982: 
“Before commenting on the recommendation to acquire a 
VHSIC/VLSI facility, the Director and I would like the Council 
to explore a little more exactly what would be involved. Our 
first blush reaction is prompted by fear that the cost may be too 
high for the Community to bear. Rather than fund a facility of 
this nature, possibly we could piggyback on existing 
commercial facilities to explore circuits which might be unique 
for intelligence programs […] We believe that the low powered, 
high density storage technology […] should be pursued by other 
DoD and commercial programs as well, thus permitting the 
Intelligence Community to capitalize on developmental work 
elsewhere.”43 
                                       
42 Proposed TDY Travel to Boston, Octobe r 25, 1985, available at: https://www.cia. 
gov/library/readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP87M00220R000800930013-8.pdf. 
43 IR&DC report, Technology considerations for im proved intelligence capabilities, December 1, 
1982, available at: https://www.cia.gov/library /readingroom/docs/CIA-RDP87B00305R0008015 
00001-4.pdf. 
38     Artificial Intelligence,  Cybersecurity and Cyber Defense 
In 1987, the Deputy Director of Administration of the CIA expressed the 
desire to place a staff member at Ca rnegie-Mellon University for a one-year 
training program to represent the agen cy technically and politically; the 
second option proposed was to place a “professor” in residence for two 
years, with the term in quotation marks: 
“[…] the Agency should have someone at Carnegie-Mellon 
University who has an ADP background. […] Please […] 
arrange for an appropriate officer  to go to Carnegie-Mellon for 
a year’s training in the field of artificial intelligence or arrange 
to place an officer at Carnegie-Mellon for two years as a 
‘professor’ in Residence […] It should be an individual who we 
believe can represent us both technically and politically […] 
Let’s work at this seriously and aggressively.” [MAL 87] 
 Industry Universitie s Policy/Government 
AI Symposium, 
198244 Xerox, Symbolics, 
DEC (Digital 
Equipment 
Corporation), VERAC 
Corporation, System 
Development 
Corporation, Artificial 
Intelligence 
Corporation, Texas 
Instruments 
Corporation, Hughes 
Research Laboratory Yale University, 
University of 
Pittsburgh,  
Syracus UniversityOffice of Research and 
Development (ORD) 
Training  Placement of CIA 
agents as students 
or professors in 
American 
universities  
Table 1.
