# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Darren Kitchen - Bash Bunny_ A Guide to the HotPlug Attack Platform (2022, Hak5 LLC) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - The LED will 
indicate magenta while the ECM Ethernet interface comes online and the DHCP client on the Bash 
Bunny then attempts to obtain an IP address from your Mac. Once successful, the LED will change to 
green.
Security Relevance Score: 3
Word Count: 792
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:20

---

The LED will 
indicate magenta while the ECM Ethernet interface comes online and the DHCP client on the Bash 
Bunny then attempts to obtain an IP address from your Mac. Once successful, the LED will change to 
green.
6.The Bash Bunny will get an IP address from your Mac in the 192.168.2.x/24 range (likely 192.168.2.2). 
Check the bridge100 interface with the ifconfig command in a terminal.You should now be able to SSH 
into the Bash Bunny from the terminal, for example with the command ssh root@192.168.2.2
 
METHOD 2: SQUID VIA MACPORTS
1.Configure a payload.txt for ATTACKMODE ECM_ETHERNET STORAGE
2.Boot Bash Bunny from an ECM_ETHERNET configured payload
3.Open a terminal on the OSX host. Install Macports if you don’t have it installed already. 
http://macports.org
4.Install and set up Squid on the OSX host:
sudo port install squid 1
sudo squid -z 2
sudo squid 3
5.You will now have an open (!!) proxy running on all interfaces of your host. If you are not in a trusted 
environment, limit the interface in the squid.conf file.
6.SSH to the bash bunny
ssh root@172.16.64.1 1
7.Set up the proxy server using environment variables.
Hailey King - haileykq1w2e3r417@gmail.com - November 10, 2024

exporthttpproxy=http://172166410:3128<--changetheIPaddresstomatchthehos 1
8.Your bash bunny should now be on-line.
apt-get update; apt-get upgrade 1
Software Updates
Updating the Bash Bunny
From time to time Hak5 releases firmware updates for the Bash Bunny including new features, bug fixes and 
security improvements. The easiest way to install these is with the Bash Bunny updater.
Available for Windows, Mac and Linux – this utility will automatically update your Bash Bunny to the latest 
software version.
The payload library on the Bash Bunny can also be kept up to date using this tool. When the updater runs it 
will not only check for firmware updates (and updates to the utility itself), it will also synchronize your copy of 
the /payloads/library folder with the official repository. Additionally it will update any available language files.
The Bash Bunny Updater
Start by  for your host OS – Windows 32/64, Linux 32/64 and Mac 
versions are available. Connect your Bash Bunny to your computer in arming mode. Extract the contents of 
the downloaded ZIP file to the root of the Bash Bunny’s flash storage.downloading the Bash Bunny updater
For example, on Windows if the Bash Bunny is located at d:\ it should now contain the file 
d:\bunnyupdater.exe
Windows
From Windows Explorer with your Bash Bunny connected in arming mode, browse to its flash storage, then 
double-click the bunnyupdater program. Follow the instructions on screen.
MacOS
From OSX Finder, with your Bash Bunny connected in arming mode, browse to its flash storage then 
double-click the BunnyUpdater app.
Linux
Running the Bash Bunny updater from Linux is a little trickier than Windows/OSX as you can’t just double-
click the file, but if you’re comfortable in the command prompt it should be pretty natural and straightforward.
Hailey King - haileykq1w2e3r417@gmail.com - November 10, 2024

For the most part, running bunnyupdater from the Bash Bunny’s FAT32-based USB flash disk is not 
recommended. To run the bunnyupdater from your local Linux computer, the path to the Bash Bunny flash 
disk must be supplied as a variable.
Usage
When the Bash Bunny Updater runs it will first prompt you to initiate the update. This tool requires an 
Internet connection and will initiate downloads from Hak5 servers. It will first check for updates to itself, 
followed by firmware updates and finally payload updates. After each update completes the tool exit. This 
means in the case that a firmware update is available, that update will be applied to the Bash Bunny and 
require a reboot of the device. Following the firmware update, the Bash Bunny updater may be run again to 
update the payloads.
Manually update the Bash Bunny Firmware
Your Bash Bunny can be easily upgraded to the latest firmware version. Just copying an upgrade file to the 
root of the Bash Bunny flash drive in arming mode, safely eject it, and plug it back into your computer in 
arming mode.
The first time the Bash Bunny is upgraded it will indicate the flashing process with a red blinking LED for up 
to 10 minutes. The flashing process will be followed by a green LED to indicate that the Bash Bunny is 
rebooting. Finally the standard slow blinking blue LED will indicate that the flashing process has succeeded 
and arming mode is ready.
DO NOT unplug the Bash Bunny while firmware upgrade is in progress. Doing so will spell certain 
doom.
DO NOT extract the contents of the downloaded .tar.gz to the Bash Bunny or change the 
name of the downloaded .tar.gz file. Doing so will put your Bash Bunny into a boot loop on 
firmwares 1.0 to 1.
