# Security Chapter Extract
Book: DARWIN, TYE - LINUX FOR HACKERS_ LEARN CYBERSECURITY PRINCIPLES WITH SHELL,PYTHON,BASH PROGRAMMING USING KALI LINUX TOOLS. A COMPLETE GUIDE FO (2020, GVS PUBLICATIONS) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1994 - Although its history is not as long as other famous Linux distributions, it has a much longer history than many newer Linux distributions.
Since the release of Red Hat 9.0, Red Hat no longer develops desktop Linux distribution kits. Red Hat Linux has stopped development and concentrated all its efforts on the development of the server version, which is the Red Hat Enterprise Linux version. On April 30, 2004, Red Hat officially stopped supporting Red Hat 9.0 version, which marked the official end of desktop Red Hat Linux. The original desktop Red Hat Linux distribution was merged with Fedora from the open source community to become the Fedora Core distribution.
Red Hat is currently divided into two series: Red Hat Enterprise Linux, which is provided by Red Hat with paid technical support and updates, and the free Fedora Core developed by the community.
For who do we suggest this?
To all enterprises with a need for server administration, there is no distro that is more better than Red Hat Linux.
Security Relevance Score: 8
Word Count: 7186
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:27

---

Although its history is not as long as other famous Linux distributions, it has a much longer history than many newer Linux distributions.
Since the release of Red Hat 9.0, Red Hat no longer develops desktop Linux distribution kits. Red Hat Linux has stopped development and concentrated all its efforts on the development of the server version, which is the Red Hat Enterprise Linux version. On April 30, 2004, Red Hat officially stopped supporting Red Hat 9.0 version, which marked the official end of desktop Red Hat Linux. The original desktop Red Hat Linux distribution was merged with Fedora from the open source community to become the Fedora Core distribution.
Red Hat is currently divided into two series: Red Hat Enterprise Linux, which is provided by Red Hat with paid technical support and updates, and the free Fedora Core developed by the community.
For who do we suggest this?
To all enterprises with a need for server administration, there is no distro that is more better than Red Hat Linux.

Fedora Core

Fedora Core (FC) is positioned by Red Hat as a testing platform for new technologies, and many new technologies will be tested in FC. If these new technologies are stable, Red Hat will consider these software joining Red Hat Enterprise Linux.
Fedora Core 1 was released in late 2003, and FC is positioned for a desktop user. FC provides the latest software package, and its version update cycle is also very short, only 6 months. Due to frequent version updates, performance and stability cannot be guaranteed and it is generally not recommended to use Fedora Core on the server.
For users, Fedora is a free operating system with complete functions and rapid updates. Therefore, for personal applications, such as development and to experience new features, you can choose this release version.

Kali Linux

As a hacker you need to be aware of the perfect Linux distro that exists for hackers. Previously, it is called as Blacktrack and is maintained by a number of volunteers. What Kali Linux excels is to provide tools that are essential for both hackers and forensic specialists in the same operating system.
While now a days it is true that Kali is being given competition with Parrot Linux, another famous Linux distro we still recommend beginners to use Kali Linux to begin their hacking career. Kali Linux is also free to download and fully supports all open-source policies. If you need to be serious with hacking then it is obvious that you take advantage by using Kali as your main operating system.

CentOS

The full name of CentOS is "Community Enterprise Operating System". It is compiled from the source code released by RHEL in accordance with the open source regulations. Since RHEL is a commercial product, all Red Hat logos must be changed to their own CentOS logo, which gave rise to the CentOS operating system.
The difference between the two is that CentOS does not include closed source software. Therefore, CentOS can not only be used freely, but also can enjoy the long-term free upgrade and update service provided by CentOS. This is a great advantage of CentOS.
CentOS is built from the source code package of RHEL. Its version number has two parts: a major version and a minor version. The major and minor version numbers correspond to the major and update packages of RHEL respectively. For example, CentOS 6.5 is built on the 5th version of the RHEL 6.0 update.
However, since the RHEL7.0 version, the CentOS version naming format has changed slightly. The major version still corresponds to the major version of RHEL, and the minor version is subject to the release date of the RHEL update package.
In 2014, CentOS announced its cooperation with Red Hat, but CentOS will continue to operate under the new committee and will not be affected by RHEL. This strategy indicates that the follow-up development of CentOS will be strongly supported by Red Hat.

SuSE Linux

SUSE is the most famous Linux distribution in Germany and enjoys a high reputation, but its fate is quite rough now. On November 4, 2003, Novell announced the acquisition of SUSE. In January 2004, the acquisition was successfully completed, and Novell also officially named SUSE as SUSE Linux. Novell's acquisition of SUSE accelerated the development of SUSE Linux and changed the free SUSE Linux into an openSUSE community project.
But in 2010, Attachmate acquired Novell. After being acquired, the development of SUSE Linux was blocked. And just 3 years later, SUSE changed ownership again. In September 2014, Attachmate was acquired by the listed company Micro Focus. Fortunately, SUSE officially announced that open source is the foundation of SUSE development and will continue to contribute to open source. SUSE still Will fully support openSUSE.
Although SUSE has changed ownership many times, it does not affect its professionalism. According to incomplete statistics, SUSE Linux now occupies nearly 80% of the European Linux market, and most key applications are built under SUSE Linux.

Ubuntu Linux

Ubuntu is a Linux operating system based on desktop applications. Based on Debian GNU/Linux, Ubuntu aims to provide general users with a main and also latest and stable operating system built by free software. Ubuntu has a huge community power, users can easily get help from the community.
Using this Ubuntu, Linux mint is also based upon which we will be mostly using in this book for discussing about various concepts.
The above section mainly introduced the most common Linux distributions. In fact, there are many Linux distributions. The more common ones are Debian GNU/Linux, Mandriva, Gentoo, Slackware, Knoppix, MEPIS and Xandros, as well as Red Flag Linux, Deepin Linux and Kylin Linux, etc. won't be introduced here. In fact, looking at the various distributions of Linux, Linux distributions are nothing more than the development of these two aspects, one is the server market, and the other is the desktop market.
Finally what are our recommendation according to the purpose?
Linux distributions represented by Ubuntu Linux take the desktop market route. Although they bring many surprises to users and are updated quickly, the development of the Linux desktop market is not optimistic because the desktop market has strong competitors like Windows. At present, Ubuntu Linux has also begun to exert its strength in the enterprise server market.
Linux distributions represented by the Red Hat series are now mainly for the enterprise-level Linux server market, focusing on the development of enterprise versions of Linux, and other distributions are focused on Linux Server market. The two major Linux distribution vendors have now taken the route of the Linux server market, which shows that Linux as an enterprise server has a huge development prospect. According to statistics from authoritative departments, Linux's share of the server market continues to rise every year.
In fact, many applications of Linux are aimed at Linux servers, and the description of this book is mainly aimed at various applications of Linux under servers. As a hacker you need to understand how enterprises uses Linux to make their scenarios work. Even though cracking a target from a desktop system like Kali Linux , you need to be completely aware of the functionalities of a Linux server upon which the servers are built and maintained. We all know that all the sensitive and the information we absolutely need are stored in servers.
What is the first choice for beginners? - LinuxMint series
After learning about several major Linux distributions, we found out why we chose Linux Mint as a beginner's introductory study. Linux Mint now has a huge network of users, and 80% of network Linux resources are based on Ubuntu distributions. If you encounter any problems during the learning process, you can easily search for solutions on the Internet.
The Linux Mint series version can be easily obtained.
You can download the installation media of various versions of Mint from the official website of Linux Mint or 163 open source, SOHU open source, and Cloud open source sites. If this is the first time you are exposed to Linux, it is recommended to install Fedora Core first. Fedora Core is easy to install, has good hardware support, and has a gorgeous interface. You can also experience the latest features of Linux. If you have a certain understanding of Linux and need in-depth study, it is recommended to use the CentOS distribution system.
Linux Mint has a wide range of applications and is typical and representative.
Now basically all Internet companies' back-end servers use Linux Mint as the operating system. It can be said that after learning LinuxMint, it can not only quickly integrate into the enterprise's working environment, but can also be used by analogy, and other similar Linux distributions can also be quickly mastered. At the same time, the users who are learning Linux around are generally based on Mint, so that communication is convenient and problems in learning are easier to solve.
After getting a good grasp in Linux by using the Linux mint as a hacker you can expand your expertise by installing Kali Linux and can hack systems using tons of tools that are available in it.
What is Desktop platform first choice? -Ubuntu Linux
When it comes to the Linux desktop market, Ubuntu Linux occupies almost half of the desktop Linux. Ubuntu Linux is the most popular Linux desktop with beautiful, simple and gorgeous interface. If you want to have entertainment and leisure under Linux, Ubuntu Linux is definitely the first choice.
Ubuntu installation is very user-friendly, just follow the prompts step by step. Ubuntu is known as one of the best and most comprehensive Linux distributions with hardware support. Many hardware that cannot be used on other distributions or in the default configuration can be easily installed and used on Ubuntu. Therefore, users can install Ubuntu as easily as Windows, and enjoy the fun of Ubuntu Linux.
What is the first choice for enterprise applications?-RHEL/CentOS series
Enterprise-level applications pursue reliability and stability, which requires high reliability and high stability on the system platform for building enterprise-level applications. Enterprise Linux distributions can solve this problem.
There is not much difference between the two Linux distributions of RHEL and Centos. The difference is that RHEL is a commercial Linux distribution. If you want to use the RHEL version, you need to purchase commercial authorization and consulting services. Red Hat provides system technical support And provide free system upgrades.
At present, the Red Hat official website no longer provides free downloadable CD media. If you need a trial, you can download an evaluation version of Linux with a trial time limit through the official website. And CentOS is a non-commercial release. You can download the installation media for each version of CentOS for free from the Internet, but CentOS does not provide commercial support. Of course, users do not have to bear any commercial responsibility.
So, should I choose CentOS or RHEL? It depends on whether your company has the corresponding technical strength. If it is a pure business enterprise, then it is recommended to purchase the RHEL distribution and purchase the corresponding services, which can save the enterprise’s IT management costs and receive professional technical support services. On the contrary, if the enterprise technology is relatively strong, and has many years of Linux experience, then the CentOS distribution will be the best choice.
What is the first choice for hackers and penetration testers ? Kali Linux
Kali Linux is the first operating system that expanded the horizons for helping hackers to maintain a reliable distro that consists of all kinds of tools for various purposes. Kali Linux also provides TOR binding and will protect your anonymity better than other software that are available. You can also try parrot Linux but it has more bloat then the Kali Linux and is hence only recommended for systems with huge memory resources.
What Next?
With this, we completed a brief introduction to various Linux distros and provided tons of examples to explain which is the best operating system for each individual purpose. In the next chapter we will talk about some tips that can help you to become a proficient Linux expert.












Chapter Three



Strategy to master Linux





In the previous
 chapter we have talked about various Linux distributions. Before heading to the installation procedure we need to provide you a few tips so that you will master Linux in the way that worked for a lot of other professionals before. However, remember that this is not a strict roadmap to follow. You can experiment and find out which strategy is working for you in the long run. This is only a strategy for your better understanding about obtaining the technical skills that needs a practical use case in enterprise industry.
How to Develop good Linux operating habits?
After learning Linux, please do not think about the problem in the way of working in Windows, because there are indeed very big differences between them. For example, the memory management mechanism and process operation mechanism between them are very different. These similarities and differences Points will be described in the following chapters. Therefore, it is very important for beginners to put aside the kind of thinking of Windows and try to tap the unique potential of Linux with a new concept. Always make sure that you are thorough with all the Linux basics such as File management, process management and Logging management.
Be sure to get used to the command line mode
Linux is an operating system composed of command lines. The essence and heart of the operating system is in the command line. No matter what level the graphical interface develops, the operation of the command line mode will never change. Linux commands have many powerful functions: from simple disk operations, file access, to the production of complex multimedia images and streaming media files, they are inseparable from the command line. Although Linux also has a desktop system, X-Window is just an application running in command line mode.
Therefore, it can be said that commands are the basis for learning Linux systems. To a large extent, learning Linux means learning commands. Many Linux masters are actually commanders.
Perhaps it is too difficult for a beginner who has just switched from a Windows system to a Linux system to enter the boring command learning immediately, but once you learn it, you will love it, because its functions are so powerful.
Combination of theory and practice
Many beginners will encounter such a problem. They are familiar with every command of the system, but when the system fails, they can't start, and they don't even know when to use which command to check the system. This is the most helpless thing for many Linux novices. In the final analysis, the theoretical knowledge learned is not well integrated with the actual operation of the system.
A lot of Linux knowledge, such as the meaning of the parameters of each command, is very clear in the book, and it seems to be easy to understand, but once combined and used, it is not so easy. Without multiple hands-on practice, the skills are impossible to Completely master.
The human brain is not like a computer's hard drive. Unless the hard drive is broken or the hard drive is formatted, the stored data will always be stored in the hard drive and can be recalled at all times. In the curve of human memory, one must keep repeating practice to remember one thing more firmly. The same is true for learning Linux. If you can’t keep learning, you will learn the latter and forget the former. There are also some Linux beginners who have learned a lot of Linux knowledge, but because they have not used it for a long time, the things they have learned are forgotten in a short period of time. Over time, they lose their confidence in learning.
It can be seen that to develop your own combat skills, you only need to be diligent and willing to practice. This is also the foundation of learning Linux well.
Learn to use Linux online help
The technical support time of each Linux distribution is relatively short, which is often not enough for Linux beginners. In fact, when a complete Linux system is installed, it already contains a powerful help interface, but maybe you haven't found it yet, or haven't mastered the skills to use it. For example, if you are not very familiar with the use of the tar command, just enter "man tar" on the command line, and you will get a detailed description and usage of tar.
The mainstream Linux distributions come with very detailed help documents, including instructions and FAQs, from system installation to system maintenance, to system security, and detailed documentation for users at different levels. After reading the document carefully, 60% of the problems can be solved.
Learn to think independently and solve problems independently
When encountering a problem, the first thing that comes to mind is how to solve the problem by yourself. There are many ways to solve it. For example, through these methods, 90% of the problems can be solved by reading books, searching information, searching online and browsing technical forums.
Thinking and solving problems independently not only exercises one's own ability to solve problems independently, but also improves rapidly in technology. If you can't solve the problem by the above methods, you can ask people, think about why you did it after you get the answer, and then take notes to record the resolution process. The most taboo way is to ask people whenever you encounter a problem. Although this may solve the problem quickly, in the long run, you will rely on others when encountering problems, and you will not improve in your technical knowledge.
Learning professional English
If you want to learn Linux in depth, you must try to view the English documentation. Because the best and most comprehensive documents of technical things are all in English, and the first high-tech released are all written in English. Even if people in non-English speaking countries publish technical documents, they are first translated into English and published in international academic journals and the Internet.
When installing a new software, first read the Readme document, then the Install document, then the FAQ document, and finally start the installation, so that you will know the cause if you encounter a problem. Therefore, it is necessary to learn a little professional English if you are from other language speaking countries.
In the next section, we will provide a Linux roadmap for your better analysis of the subject. Follow along!
Linux learning roadmap
Linux operation and maintenance or management talents are one of the technical talents urgently needed by enterprises. Based on many years of work experience, the author has summed up a set of strategies for learning Linux. Readers can use this as a basis to grasp the key points and distinguish the priority. I believe that it will achieve a multiplier effect with half the effort. If readers can earnestly study and master the technical points involved in this roadmap, it will basically meet the basic application needs of enterprises for Linux operation and maintenance or management talents.
This strategy is divided into three stages: elementary, intermediate and advanced. The initial stage is mainly an introduction to the basic knowledge of Linux and basic applications of the system, and there are more contents to be mastered. If you are new to Linux, it is still difficult to get started.
Linux focuses on command operations, so the primary stage is to learn basic commands. Reading more books and practicing more is the foundation of learning commands well. The intermediate stage focuses on common server configurations, involving various application server configurations, network configurations, and system security configurations.
The difficulty at this stage lies in the construction of various servers, which requires high comprehensive knowledge. The focus of the advanced stage is programming language and cluster architecture. The development direction at this stage is senior operation and maintenance engineer or system architect. To become a system architect, it is necessary to be proficient in a programming language, and the common cluster architecture and distributed architecture under Linux are also required by senior operation and maintenance engineers.
What Next?
With this, we have provided a brief introduction to start learning Linux by using different strategies that are usually followed by professionals. With this essential prerequisite we further move along by learning about the installation procedure of Linux in the next chapter. Follow along and make you understand Linux in a better way.












Chapter Four



Linux Installation Prerequistes





In the previous
 chapter of this book we have introduced Linux and provided some real life scenarios where Linux is being used by professionals and developers. If you are still not satisfied to opt out Linux as your operating system we suggest you to visit “www.distrowatch.com” to look at the famous Linux distros and their awesome features.
If you are proceeding further then we are believing that you have chosen your preferred Linux distro for experimenting with Linux. Is it Manjaro? Is it Linux Mint? Is it Debian based Linux distro? Or are you a tech savvy who had chosen Arch Linux? No matter what Linux system you are willing to use this book will help you get the basic philosophy that is important to master Linux. We don’t spoon feed you with clear instructions but will provide concrete instructions in a way that you can do work by yourself.
These next couple chapters in this module will help you to install Linux in your computer. We provided a couple of methods to install Linux. Follow along and be ready to hit a couple of google searches to achieve what you want. Amigos let’s go.
Installing Linux
Before learning the various operations of Linux, you must first install the Linux system. Compared with the installation of the Windows system, the installation of the Linux system has many points to pay attention to, such as choosing the appropriate installation method and determining the naming scheme you want to proceed with. This chapter will take the Linux Mint latest distro version as an example to explain the installation process of the Linux system in detail and help solve the problems that may be encountered during the installation.
Warning:
Always make sure that you take a backup before proceeding with the installation procedure. If you are using this machine for work purposes we recommend to take backup of two copies at least for any problems that may arise during installation.
Installation requirements
Generally, each Linux distribution will give a list of minimum requirements and recommended configurations for the system, and different installation options (such as graphical interface or character interface) have different requirements for the system. While you are downloading the installation disk image from the official website of the Linux distro the maintainers of the website will usually display the minimum requirements. If not, please look out at the forums or do a quick google search for the details.
Linux has very low hardware requirements. Most of the machines that can run Windows can be used to install Linux, and the running speed will be much faster than Windows. The minimum hardware configuration for installing Linux is not discussed here, only some special applications and special installations are explained. This is due to the fact that we are not aware of the distro you are going to install. For this particular Linux Mint version 1GB is the minimum required RAM memory.
If you want to install a graphical interface (that is, X-Window in Linux), or run office software such as OpenOffice, the system's graphics card and memory requirements are higher, preferably a discrete graphics card, otherwise the display effect of the graphical interface will not be ideal . Linux is not particularly a well known operating system for gaming. If you are into gaming then I think that you should better stick with windows PC.
Most of the drivers on Linux are written by open source people based on the information provided by the hardware manufacturer, and some of them are difficult to write because the hardware manufacturer refuses to provide the information. In recent years, because Linux has become hot, many hardware manufacturers have changed their normals and actively assisted Linux developers to provide hardware information, but they are still conservative.
Although the Linux installation CD already contains most of the hardware drivers, it is inevitable that the Linux distribution cannot update the corresponding drivers in time due to the rapid hardware update.
If the hardware configuration is very new, you need to check whether the Linux installation version contains all the drivers for the hardware. The most common ones are network card drivers, sound card drivers, etc. Readers can check on the official website of the hardware manufacturer, which lists all the operating systems and versions supported by the hardware.
In the next chapter we will provide instructions to install Linux Mint using an optical drive. Follow along!












Chapter Five



Installation procedures for Linux





Linux system installation
 is diverse and flexible, and different installation methods can be selected according to different environments. Common installation methods include hard disk installation, U disk installation, network installation, and CD-ROM installation.
Hard disk installation method
The hard disk installation method is generally based on the Windows system. For example, if you want to install a dual system where Windows and Linux coexist or if the system does not have an optical drive, you can use the hard disk method to install.
Attention:
Because the file system format of Windows is completely different from that of Linux, it is absolutely impossible to install both Windows and Linux in one partition. Even if you do this, Linux cannot recognize the hard disk partition. This type of installation is usually not recommended for normal users. If you are using a low end system but need a high memory based operating system then we suggest you to install Linux using Hard-disk installation.
U disk installation method
Today's servers are generally not equipped with CD-ROM drives, and the installation speed of CD-ROM drives is slow, and a lot of time will be wasted when installing systems in batches. At this point, you can install the system through a USB flash drive, which is a fast, cheap and efficient Linux installation method.
First of all, the U disk is inexpensive and can be used in many ways. Secondly, all servers or PCs are basically equipped with a USB interface, and U disk installation is universal. Finally, the installation speed of U disk is very fast, which can save a lot of time. Therefore, the U disk installation of Linux is a current development trend. The next chapters in this module will introduce in detail the method of U disk installation of Linux using Rufus and Usb writer software.
Network installation method
When installing a single server or a small number of servers (no more than 10), the installation via U disk or CD-ROM can also be used, but if you want to install hundreds or even thousands of servers, this method is obviously unrealistic of. So how to quickly install it in the face of such a demand? Yes networks are the answer
Network installation of Linux is generally an automated installation process in large quantities. The most common batch network installation tool is Kickstart, which is an unattended Linux system automatic installation tool.
With Kickstart, system administrators can automatically complete the installation of Linux systems by creating an answer file. Its working principle is to generate a ks.cfg response file through various parameters that need manual intervention in the typical installation process.
The installer only needs to tell Kickstart where the installation program reads the ks.cfg file, and then Kickstart will automatically complete the installation of the system according to the settings of this file.
As the network installation needs the support of network services, it is difficult for beginners and therefore is not described too much here. The following section focuses on installing Linux through CD-ROM and U disk.
Installation using CD-ROM
Installing Linux system by CD-ROM is the most common software installation method, which is simple and easy to understand. To be frank the focus of this chapter is to install Linux by CD-ROM, provided that the computer has a CD-ROM and Linux system installation CD. You can easily create a Linux installation CD using during software such as Nero just like you do normal CD burning.
Readers can download the installation media in ISO format for Linux mint version from the Internet, and then burn the ISO file to CD. For example, Linux Mint version 17.1 can be downloaded from the official website.
After the download is completed, the ISO file is burned to the DVD disc through the burning software such as UltraISO, InfraRecorder and Nero Burning ROM, and then can be used to enter the BIOS to set the first startup sequence of the computer as DVD-ROM. After saving the settings, the DVD should be inserted into the optical drive and the computer will be restarted. The disc will automatically boot and start the Linux installation program.
In the next chapter, we will talk about other advanced stuff such as partitioning that are essential for installation of Linux. Let us go!












Chapter Six



Partitioning in Linux





Partitioning is a pretty
 basic procedure that is mandatory while performing an installation of Linux in a computer. Even if you install a windows system you need to partition the system. While windows provide a graphical interface the partition mechanism in Linux can be a bit different and some linux dusters doesn’t even offer Graphical installers such as Gparted. Follow along to know in detail about the partition scheming and installation procedure.
Partition naming scheme
Before starting the installation, we need to know some common sense about partition naming in Linux.
Under Linux, hard disk partitions are identified by a combination of letters and numbers, which is different from using "C disk" or "C:" to identify hard disk partitions under Windows system. This naming scheme of Linux is more flexible than that of Windows, and the meaning expressed is clearer. It is completely possible to know the hard disk partition situation in detail through partition identification.
At the same time, Linux's hard disk naming scheme is file-based, generally with the following file naming methods:

/dev/hda2/


dev/sdb3

The following details the specific meaning represented by each character in these partition naming schemes.
/dev: This is the directory where all device files are stored.
hd and sd: They are the first two letters of the partition and represent the device type in which the partition is located, where hd represents the IDE hard disk and sd represents the SCSI hard disk.
a: It is the third letter of the partition name, indicating which device the partition is on.
For example,/dev/hda represents the first IDE hard disk,/dev/sdb represents the second SCSI hard disk,/dev/sdd represents the fourth SCSI hard disk, and so on.
2: This number represents partitions.
The first 4 partitions (main partition or extended partition) under Linux are represented by numbers 1 ~ 4, logical partitions start from 5, and so on. ~
For example,/dev/hda2 represents the second primary or extended partition of the first IDE hard disk,/dev/sdb3 represents the third primary or extended partition of the second SCSI hard disk, and/dev/sdc6 represents the second logical partition of the third SCSI hard disk.
Dual-system Windows + Linux Hard Disk Partition Scheme
Many beginners who switch from Windows to Linux like to install dual systems on their computers. This is also called as dual booting in technical terms. This method is more dangerous for beginners of Linux and may cause the loss of hard disk data. Therefore, it is necessary to talk about how to safely and effectively install the dual system of Linux + Windows coexistence.
First of all, it should be understood that Linux and Windows are two completely different systems, so the file systems of Linux and Windows are also incompatible with each other. If you want to install Linux, you must "dedicate" a partition from the hard disk to Linux, and this dedication is not to empty the data under a certain drive letter, but to completely delete the disk from Windows.
For example, if I want to give D disk space to Linux system, I need to completely delete D disk in disk management under Windows. The size of the space depends on the size of the installation package. Generally, 10GB of space can meet the requirements.
After sorting out the space required by Linux, the next job is to restart the system, set the BIOS to start from the optical drive, put the Linux CD into the optical drive, and then enter the system installation interface.
note:
In a Dual system installation it is best to install Windows system first, and then install Linux, because every time Windows is installed, the system boot files will be re-modified. If you install dual systems in the reverse order, Linux may not boot, and you may need to repair the system boot files.
Also while installing GRUB boot loader will be replaced from windows to Linux. And in future instances if for some reason you chose to delete Linux then the Grub will be broken and you many not boot into your windows system.
This is one of the most well known problem that beginners encounter while dealing with dual-booting systems. To troubleshoot boot loader problems we suggest to check forums of your manufacturer.
In the next chapter, we will start the installation procedure of Linux Mint. Follow along!












Chapter Seven



Starting Installation Procedure





After detail instructions
 provided by previous chapters, we already have sufficient preparation knowledge before installing the Linux system. Now start to install the Linux system using the specific steps as follows.
How to make System boot?
1) In the BIOS of the motherboard, set it to boot from DVD-ROM, put the CD into the optical drive, and the interface to chose options will appear.
After the installation program successfully boots from the CD, a boot menu with several options will be displayed. If no key is pressed within 60 seconds, the default boot option will be run. To select the default option, you can wait for the counter to time out or press Enter on the keyboard.
To select options other than the default options, use the arrow keys on the keyboard and press Enter after selecting the correct option.
If you are installing from the Linux mint iso then the installation menu will appear. The Linux Mint installer has three startup options to choose from, namely Install Linux-mint , Test this media & install Linux Mint and Troubleshooting (Failure repair menu).
Almost all other Linux distros also provide a similar menu in their installation media file. Security researchers or forensic specialists who are not willing to Select Install CentOS 7 to automatically enter the installation process of the graphical interface. If you want to test whether there is a problem with the installation media, you can choose Test this media & install Linux Mint.
This option is the default option, it will first check the integrity of the installation media, and then Start the installation program and automatically will enter the graphical interface installation process. The Troubleshooting option is mainly used to help solve various installation problems and to repair system faults.
2) Select Troubleshooting and press Enter to get the interface that starts the installation procedure.
In the Troubleshooting interface, there are usually 4 options, which respectively represent the installation of Linux Mint in the basic graphics mode, the rescue of Linux Mint mode, the memory test, and the boot from the local drive option. Among these 4 options, the most used one is the rescue mode, which can be used to repair the system's failure due to system kernel problems, configuration file errors, disk errors, etc.
There are two commonly used installation methods for Linux, namely characters and graphics. Since Linux Mint latest version, the character installation method is basically not recommended. The default way is the graphical installation method. However, the system installation program still retains the character installation interface. If you need to install the system in character mode, you can press Esc in the interface and then enter "Linux text" after "boot:" to enter the character installation interface.
Attention
The process of installing Linux in graphical mode and character mode is exactly the same. If the installed computer does not have a graphics card or the graphics card does not support graphics installation, you can choose character installation. Generally choose the graphical installation method.
3) In the interface shown, select Install Linux Mint, press Enter directly, select the graphical installation method, and then enter the interface. This step is used to select the language during system installation. Here, select the English option. Of course, you can select other language options, but it is recommended to choose English installation. You can realize the benefits of choosing English when the system is installed. After selecting the language, click the Continue button to enter the next installation interface.
4) This step is an overview of system installation. As can be seen from the interface, the installation process can be divided into three parts, followed by LOCALIZATION (localized installation), SOFTWARE (software installation) and SYSTEM (system installation).
Localized installation mainly includes time and time zone settings, keyboard settings and language support settings. Software installation includes two parts: installation source and software installation. System installation includes three parts: disk partition, kernel crash dump, and network settings.
Click each part to enter the setting interface, which will be introduced in turn.
Localization settings
a) Click the DATA & TIME part of the interface to select the system time zone and time. If you are in America, select North America for Region and New York for City. After the selection is complete, click the Done button on the upper left to return to the interface.
b) In the next interface shown, for the KEYBOARD option, just keep the default English (US). Then click the LANGUAGE SUPPORT option, select the language pack that needs to be installed, you can choose the language pack to install according to your own needs, here choose English and French for example. Two additional language packs will be downloaded. After the selection is complete, click the Done button on the upper left to return to the interface.
Software installation settings
a) Enter the installation source configuration section below. Since Linux has multiple installation methods, multiple installation sources can also be selected here. In the interface shown, click the INSTALLATION SOURCE option to enter the system installation source configuration interface. Because the system introduced here is to install the system through a CD-ROM drive, you can keep the default options. After the selection is completed, click the Done button on the upper left to return to the interface.
b) Enter the system installation software configuration section under interface, click the SOFTWARE SELECTION option to enter the software package installation selection interface.
The package selection interface of the Linux Mint version is very different from the 5.x/6.x version. In the 7.x version, the software packages are classified according to the various uses of Linux, mainly divided into 10 For each application scenario, readers can choose the corresponding classification according to their needs.
There are certain rules for the selection of software packages. The general experience is as follows.
If you are new to Linux, it is recommended to choose GNOME Desktop or KDE Plasma Workspaces. These two environments provide a very friendly and intuitive Linux desktop environment, allowing beginners to quickly integrate into Linux learning.
If you want to develop programs on Linux, it is recommended to choose Development and Creative Workstation. This environment provides the software, hardware, graphics and other tools needed for development. If you only need a Linux environment, you can choose Minimal Install, which only installs some basic software necessary for the Linux system.
If you want to run a virtualization program on Linux, you can choose Virtualization Host. This environment contains the software and applications necessary to run the virtualization program.
If you want to build a Linux server, it is recommended to choose Server with GUI. This environment includes basic network service facilities and GUI desktop.
In this installation, we use Linux as a machine, so here we choose with GUI. After selecting the installation environment on the left, the plug-ins of the selected environment will appear on the right. These plug-ins can be selected or not.
For Linux servers, security is the first priority. Install whatever software packages are needed, and do not install those that are not needed. Excess software packages not only occupy disk space, but also bring potential security risks to the server. Therefore, when Linux is used as a server, it must follow the principle of installation on demand and no third party installation until verified. For example, to build a DNS server, you only need to install the DNS software package and a basic system kernel. This can maximize system efficiency and ensure system safety.
After the selection is complete, click the Done button on the upper left to return to the interface with all your settings.
What Next?
In this chapter, we have provided a couple of ways to start the installation procedure in Linux. In the next chapter, we will talk about the system installation settings that are mandatory for any Linux distro. Follow along!












Chapter Eight



System Installation Settings





The previous chapter
 has been a good start for linux enthusiasts to understand about different processes that will help to understand what Linux is. In this chapter we will talk about different system installation settings that are normally used in Linux installation procedure. Follow along!
System installation settings
1) Now enter the disk partitioning stage. In the interface shown, click INSTALLATION DESTINATION to enter the disk partitioning stage. You can see that there is a hard disk sda with a size of 100GB. The size shown will be according to your disk size.
Before partitioning, some necessary instructions for Linux partitioning.
The necessary partitions under the Linux system are the root partition (the root partition is marked with "/") and the swap (marked as swap) partition.The swap partition is equivalent to the concept of virtual memory in Windows, which is the exchange of memory data with the hard disk.Regarding the size of the swap partition, many sources point out that if it is at least twice the size of the physical memory, it is not.
A basic principle is: if the memory is small (according to experience, the physical memory is less than 4GB), generally set the swap partition size to twice the memory. If the physical memory is greater than 4GB but less than 16GB, you can set the swap partition size to be equal to the physical memory. If the memory size is above 16GB, you can set the swap partition to
