# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Iqbal H. Sarker - AI-Driven Cybersecurity and Threat Intelligence_ Cyber Automation, Intelligent Decision-Making and Explainability (2024, Springer) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - Therefore, based on the CIA triad for the security 
polic y stated above, we can conclude that “conﬁdentiality” protects data, objects, 
and resources from unauthorized access and misuse; “integrity” protects data from 
unauthorized changes; and “availability” ensures accessibility to the systems and 
the resources to authorized users or the appropriate entity. Overall, cybersecurity 
can be deﬁned as the practice of protecting computer systems, networks, and 
digital information from unauthorized access, attacks, damage, or theft. It involves 
implementing a combination of technologies, processes, and practices to safeguard 
against cyber threats and ensure data conﬁdentiality, integrity, and availability, as 
deﬁned above.
Security Relevance Score: 7
Word Count: 376
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:24

---

Therefore, based on the CIA triad for the security 
polic y stated above, we can conclude that “conﬁdentiality” protects data, objects, 
and resources from unauthorized access and misuse; “integrity” protects data from 
unauthorized changes; and “availability” ensures accessibility to the systems and 
the resources to authorized users or the appropriate entity. Overall, cybersecurity 
can be deﬁned as the practice of protecting computer systems, networks, and 
digital information from unauthorized access, attacks, damage, or theft. It involves 
implementing a combination of technologies, processes, and practices to safeguard 
against cyber threats and ensure data conﬁdentiality, integrity, and availability, as 
deﬁned above.
1.2 Cybersecurity and Threat Intelligence 7
Fig. 1.2 An illustration of threat intelligence life cycle model [ 9] 
1.2.2 What Is Threat Intelligence? 
Cyber threat intelligence (CTI) is a crucial component of cybersecurity, which aids 
organizations in proactively defending their systems and data from intrusions. It 
involves collecting, analyzing, and disseminating data about cybersecurity threats 
and vulnerabilities in the digital realm. Figure 1.2 shows an illustration of the 
threat intelligence life cycle model highlighting both the quality and operation 
management. The main objective of CTI is to give organizations context and 
actionable information about cyber threats, empowering them to decide intelligently 
and better protect against cyberattacks. A combination of knowledgeable analysts, 
cutting-edge technology, and a dedication to keeping up with the evolving threat 
landscape are needed. CTI can be deﬁned as “Cyber threat intelligence (CTI) is 
knowledge, skills and experience-based information concerning the occurrence and 
assessment of both cyber and physical threats and threat actors that are intended to 
help mitigate potential attacks and harmful events occurring in cyberspace” [ 9, 10]. 
Open-source intelligence, social media intelligence, human intelligence, technical 
intelligence, device log ﬁles, forensically acquired data or intelligence from Internet 
trafﬁc, and data derived from the deep and black web are some of the sources of 
cyber threat intelligence. 
In recent years, threat intelligence has grown in signiﬁcance as a component 
of businesses’ cybersecurity plans because it enables them to be more proactive 
and identify the attacks that pose the greatest risks to their operations. Although 
traditional risk management works well with “what we know,” cyber threat intelli-
gence works across all three classes, particularly when traditional management is 
not sufﬁcient, as shown in Fig. 1.
