# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Iqbal H. Sarker - AI-Driven Cybersecurity and Threat Intelligence_ Cyber Automation, Intelligent Decision-Making and Explainability (2024, Springer) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2013 - These are deﬁned as below: 
• Tactics: This typically represents high-level objectives, i.e., the goal of an 
ATT&CK technique or sub-technique. For example, an attacker might want to 
control a network by gaining the credential access. 
• Techniques: This typically represents speciﬁc methods that are used to achieve 
those objectives, i.e., how an attacker achieves their tactical goal. For example, 
an attacker uses a credential dumping method to achieve the above goal. 
• Sub-techniques: This includes additional details or variations of the technique 
providing a more speciﬁc description of the behavior an adversary uses to 
achieve their goal. For example, an attacker might attempt to retrieve credential 
information from the Local Security Authority Subsystem or Active Directory 
database.
32 2 Cybersecurity Background Knowledge: Terminologies, Attack Frameworks. . .
Overall, we can say that MITRE ATT&CK is a knowledge base that helps in 
simulating cyber adversaries’ tactics and techniques and then demonstrates how to 
detect and prevent them. It identiﬁes tactics that indicate an attack is in progress, 
rather than focusing on the results of an attack or an indicator of compromise 
(IoC). To better protect an organization and defend against cyber threats, ATT&CK 
amasses information that can assist in understanding how attackers behave or the 
tactics used by attackers.
Security Relevance Score: 11
Word Count: 1084
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:24

---

These are deﬁned as below: 
• Tactics: This typically represents high-level objectives, i.e., the goal of an 
ATT&CK technique or sub-technique. For example, an attacker might want to 
control a network by gaining the credential access. 
• Techniques: This typically represents speciﬁc methods that are used to achieve 
those objectives, i.e., how an attacker achieves their tactical goal. For example, 
an attacker uses a credential dumping method to achieve the above goal. 
• Sub-techniques: This includes additional details or variations of the technique 
providing a more speciﬁc description of the behavior an adversary uses to 
achieve their goal. For example, an attacker might attempt to retrieve credential 
information from the Local Security Authority Subsystem or Active Directory 
database.
32 2 Cybersecurity Background Knowledge: Terminologies, Attack Frameworks. . .
Overall, we can say that MITRE ATT&CK is a knowledge base that helps in 
simulating cyber adversaries’ tactics and techniques and then demonstrates how to 
detect and prevent them. It identiﬁes tactics that indicate an attack is in progress, 
rather than focusing on the results of an attack or an indicator of compromise 
(IoC). To better protect an organization and defend against cyber threats, ATT&CK 
amasses information that can assist in understanding how attackers behave or the 
tactics used by attackers. 
2.4.1 MITRE ATT&CK Matrices 
Although MITRE ATT&CK originally emphasizes threats against Windows enter-
prise systems, it now includes coverage for Linux, mobile, macOS, and ICS. Thus, 
MITRE ATT&CK organizes adversary tactics and techniques into matrices, each of 
which contains tactics and techniques related to attacks on particular domains. They 
are as follows: 
• Enterprise Matrix: The Enterprise Matrix is the core matrix that covers tactics 
and techniques for different platforms and operating systems within a traditional 
enterprise network. Thus Windows, macOS, Linux, and cloud environments are 
included in this Enterprise Matrix. Each cell in the matrix represents a speciﬁc 
technique for a given tactic and platform. 
• Mobile Matrix: The Mobile Matrix emphasizes tactics and techniques relevant 
to mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets. Thus, this matrix helps 
in understanding the speciﬁc threats and attack techniques targeting mobile 
platforms. 
• ICS Matrix: The ICX Matrix’s tactics and techniques for attack are directed 
toward the machinery, devices, sensors, and networks that are utilized to 
automate or control activities for industries, utilities, transportation systems, and 
other critical service providers. Security professionals and businesses operating 
in the industrial sector can beneﬁt from using this matrix to understand and 
resolve cybersecurity issues speciﬁc to ICS environments. 
2.4.2 MITRE ATT&CK T actics 
Each MITRE ATT&CK tactic represents a speciﬁc adversarial goal, which is close 
to the stages or phases of a cyberattack. Through the tactics, the attacker typically 
wants to accomplish their speciﬁc goal at a given time. For example, ATT&CK 
tactics covered by the Enterprise Matrix include [ 9]: 
• Reconnaissance: This includes gathering the necessary information to plan for 
an attack. 
• Resource development: This includes establishing relevant resources needed for 
an attack or to support attack operations.
2.4 MITRE ATT&CK 33
• Initial access: This includes penetrating the target network/system or gaining 
access to the victim’s network or systems. 
• Execution: This includes running malicious code or malware on the compro-
mised network or systems. 
• Persistence: This includes maintaining access in that compromised network or 
systems. 
• Privilege escalation: This includes attempting to gain higher-level privileges or 
access, e.g., moving from user to administrator-level access. 
• Defense evasion: This includes taking actions to avoid detection once inside a 
system. 
• Credential access: This includes attempting to steal usernames, passwords, and 
other login credentials. 
• Discovery: This includes gathering information about the compromised net-
work/systems or researching the target environment to learn what resources can 
be accessed or controlled to support a planned attack. 
• Lateral movement: This includes gaining access to additional resources or 
moving from one system to another within the compromised environment. 
• Collection: Gathering data related to the attack or to support the high-level attack 
goal. 
• Command and control: This includes establishing control over the victim’s 
network/systems and communicating with compromised network/systems from 
outside, i.e., enabling the attacker to control the system. 
• Exﬁltration: This includes stealing the data from the compromised system, i.e., 
the victim’s data. 
• Impact: This includes interrupting, damaging, corrupting, or destroying data 
or business processes, in other words, making networks/systems and data 
unavailable to the victim. 
The tactics and techniques may vary from matrix to matrix on particular domains. 
For example, the Mobile Matrix deﬁned earlier does not include Reconnaissance 
and Resource Development tactics but includes other tactics such as Network 
Effects and Remote Service Effects, which are not found in the Enterprise Matrix 
[9]. 
In summary, “MITRE ATT&CK” and the “cyber kill chain” are two frameworks 
commonly used in the ﬁeld of cybersecurity to understand, analyze, and respond 
to cyber threats. While the cyber kill chain focuses on the sequential stages of 
an attack and is often used for preventive measures, MITRE ATT&CK is a more 
comprehensive framework covering a broader range of tactics and techniques used 
by adversaries across different platforms. Another approach, Attack Trees, provide a 
structured way to analyze attack scenarios, can be used to security threat modeling, 
stemming from dependency analysis. Similar other frameworks in the area, for 
example, STRIDE (spooﬁng identity, tampering with data, repudiation, information 
disclosure, denial of service, and elevation of privilege), a model of threats, can 
help reason and ﬁnd threats to a system, while DREAD (Damage, Reproducibility, 
Exploitability, Affected users, Discoverability), a risk assessment model, can be
34 2 Cybersecurity Background Knowledge: Terminologies, Attack Frameworks. . .
used to evaluate and prioritize security vulnerabilities based on their potential 
impact [ 11]. Organizations can customize and leverage these frameworks together 
to enhance the overall cybersecurity posture according to their requirements and 
assets. 
2.5 Cybersecurity Life Cycle 
The cybersecurity life cycle, sometimes referred to as the cybersecurity framework 
or process, is a structured approach for managing and maintaining the cybersecurity 
controls within an organization. To safeguard their data, infrastructure, and informa-
tion systems from cyber threats and vulnerabilities, organizations typically conduct 
a cycle that consists of several stages or processes. Certain steps and stages may 
differ signiﬁcantly according to their unique objectives and requirements across 
sectors. According to NIST [ 10] a common representation of the cybersecurity 
frame work typically includes identify, protect, detect, respond, and recover phases. 
In addition to these ﬁve core functions, govern directs an understanding of organi-
zational context and how an organization will implement the other ﬁve functions, as 
shown in Fig. 2.
