# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Kumar, Ahlad_ Kumar Chaudhary, Naveen_ Shastri, Apoorva S._ Sing - Digital Defence_ Harnessing the Power of Artificial Intelligence for Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics (2025, CRC Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2 - In order to fulfill the objectives of the study, a thorough literature analysis was undertaken to develop the research constructions, and various items from each construct were discovered to be used in the construction of the draft questionnaire. After being created in English initially, the questionnaire was validated by means of a back-translation method (Wilson, 2014). This work is taken on by two bilingual specialists who could speak both English and Vietnamese. A pretest is used to make sure there will not be any unanticipated problems with the questionnaire because it is developed in a variety of cultural and environmental contexts. In order to ensure that all of the measuring items are clear and to get feedback for improvements, the first edition of the survey questionnaire is initially distributed to seven academics and nine managers of SMEs. As a result of their insightful comments, the survey’s questionnaire is updated to incorporate a few more significant assessment items.
Security Relevance Score: 3
Word Count: 545
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:52

---

In order to fulfill the objectives of the study, a thorough literature analysis was undertaken to develop the research constructions, and various items from each construct were discovered to be used in the construction of the draft questionnaire. After being created in English initially, the questionnaire was validated by means of a back-translation method (Wilson, 2014). This work is taken on by two bilingual specialists who could speak both English and Vietnamese. A pretest is used to make sure there will not be any unanticipated problems with the questionnaire because it is developed in a variety of cultural and environmental contexts. In order to ensure that all of the measuring items are clear and to get feedback for improvements, the first edition of the survey questionnaire is initially distributed to seven academics and nine managers of SMEs. As a result of their insightful comments, the survey’s questionnaire is updated to incorporate a few more significant assessment items.



Long Description for Figure 10.2
The flowchart illustrates the steps of a research process. It begins with a rectangular box labeled "Literature review," which leads to another box labeled "Hypothesis development." An arrow connects this to "Data collection," followed by another arrow leading to "Data analysis." From "Data analysis," an arrow points to the final step, "Accept/don’t accept hypothesis." The flowchart represents a linear progression of steps in conducting research, from reviewing existing literature to analyzing data and determining whether to accept or reject the hypothesis.

FIGURE 10.2 Research flow chart.

Legal and ethical consideration. The first-order construct of LEC comprises of five second-order constructs, including cybersecurity, data protection and privacy, Intellectual property law, transparency and effectiveness, algorithmic fairness and biases which are designed from those propounded by Gerke et al. (2020).
Performance of cyber forensic accounting. The first-order construct for assessing the PCFA comprises of four second-order constructs such as cyber anti-fraud policies, IT governance, digital designed forensic procedure, and management control system. More concretely, the criteria employed to evaluate cyber anti-fraud policies in this research are taken as reference from the contributions of Lloyd Bierstaker (2009), Hossain (2023). The criteria employed to evaluate IT governance in this research are taken as reference from the contributions of Al-Zwyalif (2013), Al-Taee and Flayyih (2023). The criteria employed to evaluate digital designed forensic procedure in this research are taken as reference from the contributions of Ogundele et al. (2023). The criteria employed to evaluate management control system in this research are taken as reference from the contributions of Akinbowale et al. (2021).
Artificial intelligence capabilities. The first-order construct of AIC embodies three second-order constructs including basic, proclivity, and skills which are developed from the contributions of Chatterjee et al. (2021); Mikalef and Gupta (2021).


10.4.2 Target Population and Sampling Procedure
The study’s primary data are gathered via a paper-and-pencil questionnaire. SMEs are the subject of the analysis, and one accountant should be able to complete the questionnaire. Non-probability sampling, along with convenient sampling methods and purposeful sampling, is the method used in this study. Hair et al. (2011) suggested that the minimum sample size for Partial Least Square-Structural Equation Modeling (PLS-SEM) should be ten times greater than or equal to the structural path shown in any structural model. Data were collected between the months of August 2022 and March
