# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Kumar, Ahlad_ Kumar Chaudhary, Naveen_ Shastri, Apoorva S._ Sing - Digital Defence_ Harnessing the Power of Artificial Intelligence for Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics (2025, CRC Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2023 - This Act is a revolutionary step toward securing India’s digital assets by focusing on data protection. Some of its key features include “Consent” meaning approval before collection of personal data and creating regulations and limitations that require due diligence for maintaining the security posture of organizations.
It also focuses on handling complaints, grievances, and issuing penalties for noncompliance. While previously the Information Technology Act, 2000 provided legal recognition for electronic usage and communication, only a quarter of its legislation pertained to privacy. The Personal Data Protection Act is a positive factor for businesses subject to the law. It exclusively does not have any regulations based on AI decision-making and it’s ethical and legal considerations but can be extended to incorporate them in the future.
Security Relevance Score: 5
Word Count: 505
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:52

---

This Act is a revolutionary step toward securing India’s digital assets by focusing on data protection. Some of its key features include “Consent” meaning approval before collection of personal data and creating regulations and limitations that require due diligence for maintaining the security posture of organizations.
It also focuses on handling complaints, grievances, and issuing penalties for noncompliance. While previously the Information Technology Act, 2000 provided legal recognition for electronic usage and communication, only a quarter of its legislation pertained to privacy. The Personal Data Protection Act is a positive factor for businesses subject to the law. It exclusively does not have any regulations based on AI decision-making and it’s ethical and legal considerations but can be extended to incorporate them in the future.


6.6.2 General Data Protection Regulations, European Union
Ideated and implemented by the European Union, the General Data Protection Regulation is one of the most fundamental legislations that concentrates on giving control to citizens over their personal data. The European Data Protection Regulation is applicable as of May 25, 2018 in all member states to harmonize data privacy laws across Europe. The focal point of GDPR is to safeguard sensitive information and personal sensitive information belonging to any particular crime, victim, suspect, or weakness. It also mentions that data collected must be optimally used for legitimate purposes and any misuse shall be punishable under the enforcement.


6.6.3 Personal Data Protection Act, Singapore
Very similar to the Data Protection Act in India, this particular regulation is a commendable framework applicable in Singapore for the protection of citizen’s personal and sensitive data. The government has also deployed a Personal Data Protection Commission along with a comprehensive website wherein digital citizens are notified of the latest amendments and ways in which the framework can aid in strengthening the security posture for organizations or businesses and safeguard individuals.


6.6.4 California Consumer Privacy Act, California
The California Consumer Privacy Act amended in 2018 is an effective framework that focuses on giving consumers higher authority over the data they provide to business organizations.
It remarks the consumer’s authority over controlling what data they want to share and what they can keep concealed. If any consumer wishes to retract their data from the organization, they can request the business to do so. Overall, this Act is highly beneficial in protecting sensitive data and minimizing the possibility of it being exploited.


6.6.5 Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA), Canada
PIPEDA, is applicable to private-sector organizations and is crucial for organizations in recognizing their responsibility toward providing security for their individuals. It promotes organizations to provide authority to individuals over a collection of data.
It mentions that the organization must provide services irrespective of refusal of consent toward sharing data. The individual has rights to know for what purposes their data is being collected and launch grievances if they come across negligence toward compliance.


6.6.6 Cybersecurity Law of People’s Republic of China
The CSL or Cybersecurity Law of People’s Republic of China was brought into implementation in the year
