# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Kumar, Ahlad_ Kumar Chaudhary, Naveen_ Shastri, Apoorva S._ Sing - Digital Defence_ Harnessing the Power of Artificial Intelligence for Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics (2025, CRC Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - ML and deep learning (DL) algorithms are used to train models that can learn, adapt, and make predictions, detecting behaviors in a system which has not been observed over previous network-time use. Leveraging ML algorithms provide an edge to a more secure network by analyzing large amount of data of previously captured data packets and understanding the pattern of the network. Intrusion detection system (IDS) as a security mechanism comprises of various types which includes Host-Based IDS and Network-Based IDS [1] (Figure 4.2).
Security Relevance Score: 11
Word Count: 1532
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:52

---

ML and deep learning (DL) algorithms are used to train models that can learn, adapt, and make predictions, detecting behaviors in a system which has not been observed over previous network-time use. Leveraging ML algorithms provide an edge to a more secure network by analyzing large amount of data of previously captured data packets and understanding the pattern of the network. Intrusion detection system (IDS) as a security mechanism comprises of various types which includes Host-Based IDS and Network-Based IDS [1] (Figure 4.2).



Long Description for Figure 4.2
The "Trust" zone contains a server and a PC connected to a switch labeled "S." The switch is linked to a router labeled "R," which connects to the "Untrust" zone via the Internet. The "Untrust" zone includes a web server, a user, and a hacker. Normal traffic flows from the "Trust" zone to the Internet and back, represented by solid arrows. Unauthorized traffic, represented by dashed arrows, originates from the hacker and is blocked at the router, indicated by a large "X."

FIGURE 4.2 Integration of an ML model for Intrusion detection in a network.

The introduction of ML-IDS serves as a very effective tool to detect anomaly actions that pose a threat to the network. This approach will also enable businesses to proactively manage their networks, predict issues or threats before they occur, and ensure seamless and intelligent connectivity that promotes further business plans or objectives. Leveraging ML algorithms into intent-based networks provides so many resourceful opportunities and solutions that will ensure business objectives are always met and secure.
Despite the advancements in IBN and its potential to revolutionize network management through automation and alignment with business objectives, there remains a critical challenge in ensuring robust security against sophisticated cyber threats, and that is what this research seeks to address—The question “How can the integration of deep learning algorithms within intent-driven networks enhance intrusion detection systems (IDS)”? By exploring this question, this study aims to contribute to the development of more secure and intelligent networks that not only meet business intents but also proactively defend against potential intrusions. This study explores intent-driven networks and DL-empowered IDS in such networks.


4.2 Literature Review
IBN is an innovation that aims for flexibility, agility, and condensed network configuration with minimal external assistance. While exploring the broad aspect of IBN advancements, a comprehensive examination of IBN was conducted, focusing on IBN components including translating, resolution, purpose expression, activation, and assurance, as well as identifying unresolved issues and future perspectives for the problem on how IBN has transformed businesses and how it has provided solutions with little human efforts [2]. A study was also done on IBN, as a cutting-edge networking strategy that permits autonomous network setup based on users’ high-level intentions. It suggested a network verification method specifically designed for data center IBN networks. The model incorporates ML time-series forecasting models together with data preparation techniques, such as convolutional neural network (CNN) and recurrent neural network (RNN). The results proved that the suggested strategies are effective in estimating CPU percentage consumption with high accuracy and speed [3]. ML algorithms have tremendous capabilities, and these capabilities are being utilized in various aspects that contribute to application-based developments utilizing their strengths for various complex applications of human ideas and implementations. Aside from this very application of ML and DL algorithms to estimate CPU percentage consumption in an IBN infrastructure, ML models have been built with an objective of improving security in a network. Before the introduction of ML algorithms in IDS for traditional networks, statistical approaches, including anomaly detection and rule-based models, were employed [4,5]. Primarily focusing on anomaly detection and signature-based misuse detection [6]. Recent advancements also suggested Stateful Protocol Analysis, which inspects network traffic and detects potential security threats by maintaining an understanding of the state of communication protocols [7]. Anomaly detection tries to identify whether usage patterns that deviate from accepted norms can be identified as intrusions. Signature-based misuse detection, on the other hand, looks for intrusions by identifying patterns of popular assaults or system vulnerabilities.
IBN strategy utilizes ML to automate network design and guarantee the reliability of network resources. As a testbed for the implementation and handling of the network complexity, the IBN abstraction layer and the M-CORD were utilized as testbeds for next generation implementation [8]. They were also examined in the context of the sixth-generation (6G) wireless networks. By converting user business purposes into network configurations, IBNs effectively address common network issues including efficiency, flexibility, and security. It continuously learns and adjusts depending on real-time network data to satisfy the demands of intelligent services and dynamic radio propagation in 6G. The examination of 6G IBN frameworks and methodologies, addressed both core and radio access networks [9,10], another explored recent advancements in intent-based technologies, focusing on network management and orchestration. It analyzed standardization activities and platforms and discussed their future challenges [11]. Network regulations were also outlined by IBN, which directs configuration through supporting systems. It addresses problems and emphasizes the importance of ONOS’s role in automation through intentions [12]. Another advanced research on IBN, suggests using the 5G-ERA project to implement AI-driven IBN for autonomous robots. The process comprises of explanations of functions, inputs, outputs, and ML/semantic model tools. In meeting certain business intents which various models are unable to achieve, an innovative forecasting technique called LossLeap was proposed. It automatically figures out how to decrease the latter by minimizing the link between prediction and goal management aim. Various studies reveal that LossLeap beats benchmarks, including cutting-edge tools for predicting network capacity [13]. Another study proposed a technique for intent-specific automation pipelines, fully aware of the fact that they are learning on their own, a closed-loop micro-service with self-declared capabilities. The research looks at the practicality of combining cooperating implementation units into such pipelines. This method eliminates the ambiguity between human aim explanation and machine aim achievement while maintaining flexibility and adaptability [14].


4.3 Related Works




Research Paper
Approach
Datasets Used
Algorithms/Models
Key Results




Ashiku, Lirim, and Cihan Dagli (2021) [15]
Developed an adaptive and resilient IDS using DL
UNSW-NB15
DL architectures
Effective in detecting and classifying network attacks


Talukder, Md Alamin, et al. (2023) [16]
Proposed a hybrid model combining ML and DL for IDS
KDDCUP’99, CIC-MalMem-2022
Hybrid of ML and DL algorithms
Accuracy: 99.99% (KDDCUP’99), 100% (CIC-MalMem-2022)


Ahmad, Zeeshan, et al. (2021) [17]
Proposed network-based IDS using ML and DL
Not specified
ML and DL approaches
Discussed strengths, limitations, and challenges


Su, Tongtong, et al. (2020) [18]
Proposed Bidirectional Attention Transformers (BAT) model integrating Bidirectional Long Short Term Memory (BLSTM) with attention mechanism
Not specified
BLSTM with attention mechanism
Improved anomaly detection, no feature engineering required


Gamage, Sunanda, and Jagath Samarabandu (2020) [19]
Developed DL models for IDS using four DL architectures
KDD 99, NSL-KDD, CIC-IDS2017, CIC-IDS2018
Feed-forward neural network, autoencoder, deep belief network, LSTM
Deep feed-forward neural network outperformed others


Elmasry, Wisam, Akhan Akbulut, and Abdul Halim Zaim (2020) [20]
Utilized double PSO-based algorithm to optimize feature subsets and hyperparameters
Two IDS datasets
DNN, LSTM, DBN
4%–6% increase in Detection Rate, 1%–5% reduction in False Alarm Rate


Ferrag, Mohamed Amine, et al. (2020) [21]
Surveyed DL approaches for IDS across 35 datasets
Various datasets categorized into seven types
RNN, DNN, RBM, DBN, CNN, DBM, deep autoencoders
Evaluated performance using accuracy, false alarm rate, detection rate


Su, Tongtong, et al. (2020) [18]
Proposed BAT model integrating BLSTM with attention mechanism
Not specified
BLSTM with attention mechanism
Improved anomaly detection, no feature engineering required






4.4 Dataset Description
The dataset is provided by the Canadian Institute of Cybersecurity and can be found at [22]. The dataset though simulated was properly optimized to provide a core overview of the working mechanism in a network in real-time. Real traces were analyzed to create profiles for agents that generated real traffic for HTTP, SMTP, SSH, IMAP, POP3, and FTP. The profiles created were then employed in an experiment to generate the dataset in a testbed environment. The dataset is sorely for interfaces involving intrusions. A more detailed explanation of the dataset is provided by the Institute on their webpage which can be accessed with the above provided reference.


4.5 Implementation Mechanism
ML models are trained by learning and understanding the complex patterns in a data, taking note of the smoothness of the network, and recognizing patterns of abnormal network behavior as well as potential security threats. They have the capability to learn and implement what they have learnt to give a desired output. When a model is trained on a vast amount of data such as network traffic data which is a time-series data, they can detect anomalies that pose a threat to the entire network security.
Being integrated into networking devices such as the router used by an organization or business, it will operate in real-time, detecting intrusions and sending responses to signals that pose a threat to the entire network, thus ensuring that the integrity of the network remains intact.

4.5.1 Methodology
Building an ML model that will be fully implementable in a network can be very challenging, but we are proposing a sequential approach, which was meticulously taken after a careful study of the dataset. The same is seen in Figure 4.
