# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Kumar, Ahlad_ Kumar Chaudhary, Naveen_ Shastri, Apoorva S._ Sing - Digital Defence_ Harnessing the Power of Artificial Intelligence for Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics (2025, CRC Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 7 - Multi-Factor Authentication for Smart Internet Transactions
B. Madhu, B.N. Shubhada, and Shubham Kumar Saras
DOI: 10.1201/9781032714813-7
Security Relevance Score: 10
Word Count: 1519
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:52

---

Multi-Factor Authentication for Smart Internet Transactions
B. Madhu, B.N. Shubhada, and Shubham Kumar Saras
DOI: 10.1201/9781032714813-7


7.1 Introduction
Authentication is a process that takes place when a person is trying to log into a system resource. The resource request can be for a document like image, video, and audio file. Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is a significant tool for securing the consumer data from issues of identity theft. By adopting this method, an additional layer of protection to the username and password login can be provided.
MFA is crucial for securing smart internet transactions, especially given the increasing sophistication of cyber threats. MFA can be implemented effectively using passwords, Biometric, One-time Passwords (OTP), Hardware Tokens, Geolocation Verification, and behavioral analysis. By implementing a combination of these MFA methods, businesses can significantly enhance the security of smart internet transactions and protect against unauthorized access and fraud. MFA is utilized across various industries and platforms to enhance security by requiring multiple forms of verification before granting access to Online Banking, Email Services, Cloud Services, Workplace Applications, E-commerce Websites, Remote Access, Healthcare Systems, etc. MFA is widespread across various sectors and platforms, serving as an effective method to mitigate the risk of unauthorized access and protect sensitive information from cyber threats.


7.2 Related Work
MFA acts as an additional layer of security to prevent an unauthorized access to the users from accessing the accounts even when the password is stolen. Users can use different applications of the internet with the help of a graphical authentication system. Image-based authentication was suggested by Shah [1]. The method uses alphanumeric and draw metric patterns to generate the passwords. The method creates its own threat model to check against different types of attacks. Cross image-based authentication method is suggested to choose their password. The difficulty of the proposed method is to remember the password sequence. Our paper is a user friendly application, where the passwords are more memorizable and it aims to provide various layers of image and video graphical password which in turn promotes the secured life to the user. Web based password scheme is proposed by Abhijit [2]. The author addresses the challenges of using third party in password authentication. The authors propose a unique time-based password scheme that enhances security. However, the drawbacks of these approaches include the difficulty in remembering textual passwords with various combinations, the limited two-step authentication process consisting of a basic textual password and an image-based password. Moreover, the research process entails architectural complexity, and the authentication process itself can be time consuming. In our paper time consuming is less and it is more secured where multi-level authentication is provided to user. Lightweight Authentication Scheme for Internet of Things (IoT) domain was suggested by Ashok [3]. They have offered some solutions to assist in constructing a more secure and functional user authentication method that provides security to the next generation of IoT infrastructure. The fuzzy extraction method for biometrics verification is implemented here for more security. Pathik [4] suggested graphical password as one of the important tools for authentication. The method suggests textual and image authentication as two-level password based on color. The password sequence and color should match for the successful authentication. Tay et al. [5] reported an authentication for managing the child storing application. The method authentication for Android application for the kid’s data storage. Jiya [6] et al. reported a survey on recognition-based passwords. Zahraa et al. [7] reported authentication using mouse behavior technique. The user will remember the password with ease-of-use in mouse motion, while minimizing the risk of password guessing. Ajmeera Kiran [8] reports three-level security with image grid. The method of password manager with MFA is suggested by Dhanalakshmi [9]. The password manager is responsible for securely storing the data using encryption techniques. The method illustrates using physical security keys and graphical passwords. Naga [10] suggested a method on arbitrary password for web applications.


7.3 Experimental Method
Our proposed system works in two phases. In the first phase it uses a text-based password and pixel-matching method in the next phase. The image pixel-matching method uses the frames of the given video data. After the two-level verification user will receive a final acceptance based on the OTP.

7.3.1 Steps for Registration

User has to enter the information like first and last names, email addresses, passwords, etc. in the registration page.
As a continuation, in the next step a graphical password security page with an image-based password will be shown. It is also an option given to the users to select the image shown in the cart.
The final step is the website that asks for a password selection based on the video frames’ in the visual sequence.



7.3.2 User Login
When the user is trying to access the homepage, they will get two options: register or log in.

The new user has to register first. If he is having username and password already, then the login option can be used.
The user can log in successfully if their text-based password and username both are correct.
After the login page image base password screen will be seen. The user must select the image checkpoints as the password. The next page was redirected only if the image pixels were matched.
After this step screen for the video-based password will appear, a user must choose the image frame number of videos based on passwords. The order of the frame numbers should be matched to move on to the next level.
If the user receives a successful OTP, the banking home page will be displayed.

The above technique was implemented to increase memorability with the draw metric process. The security of the suggested system is tested against keystroke/mouse logger attacks, dictionary attacks, shoulder surfing, random guessing, phishing or form-taking, and multiple recording attacks. We also examined the usability and memorability of the password. The client must first visit the website’s internet page in order to access the records. Additionally, the customer must sign in by selecting frames in the video that are consistent with their choice for signing into page and picking prompt focuses during such images. They must select the same prompt options that they decided upon earlier in the enrollment process on the login page. If the customer attempts to log in again, they must select the identical image factors; if they do so, the login will be successful otherwise a message stating that the data is “invalid” may appear. If the login is successful, the user receives the privilege of access to the official reports to down stack or transfer for more opportunities.
Figure 7.1 shows the block diagram of system design. The image’s focal points should be an image focused on the most important factor. The video selection should be appropriate such that the choice of stretch is obvious and difficult to hack. Here, the combination of sign markings from video and image gives an encoded secret phrase for the client to login. The client no longer receives a verified login if all signers determine that either the image or the video is incorrect.



Long Description for Figure 7.1
The flowchart begins with a "User" that branches into two processes: "Register" and "Login." During registration, the user selects a "Choose G.P." option and inputs their information into a "Database" for storage. For login, the user enters their "Login Name, Password & G.P.," which are verified against the "Database." If the credentials are correct, the user is directed to a "Welcome Page." The system also includes an option to "Signout" from the welcome page, completing the user interaction. The flowchart outlines the steps for registration, login, and logout within the system.

FIGURE 7.1 Block diagram of system design.

Figure 7.2 represents the flowchart of how the user should register and follow the steps to login where he has to select the image as well as frame numbers of a video if he is not the existing user. If he is a registered user the passwords should match for login. After login image and video authentication will be added to the verification process. The stronger security system is built using the reported method.



Long Description for Figure 7.2
The flowchart begins with a decision diamond labeled "Existing User?" If the user is not an existing user, the flow proceeds to a "Sign Up" box, followed by a step labeled "Select Click points in visuals and select interval points in Video." This leads to "Registration Complete." If the user is an existing user, the flow proceeds to a "Sign In" box, followed by "Authentication." A decision diamond labeled "Click points" follows. If the click points are valid, the flow proceeds to "Login Successful." If the click points are invalid, the process loops back to "Enter valid details message pops up," which redirects the user to retry the authentication step.

FIGURE 7.2 System flow chart.




7.4 Result and Discussion
Our research effort has proven the value of using image and video-based techniques for user authentication by implementing Graphical User Authentication. Overall, our paper produced results that are 80% accurate and efficient.
Image-level password selection is indicated in Figure 7.
