# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Kumar, Ahlad_ Kumar Chaudhary, Naveen_ Shastri, Apoorva S._ Sing - Digital Defence_ Harnessing the Power of Artificial Intelligence for Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics (2025, CRC Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2019 - These five fundamental ethical standards are included. Harmony and friendliness highlight the importance of upholding human ethics and preventing aAI abuse. The goals of justice and fairness are to uphold the rights and interests of all parties. Transparent, dependable, and interpretable aAI systems are necessary for safety and controllability. Stakeholder accountability for aAI development and use is encouraged via shared responsibility. Respecting privacy stops criminal activity involving aAI-used data. These guidelines offer managers, developers, and regulators direction for reducing the ethical hazards associated with aAI. In addition, Professional associations and regulatory bodies in the accounting industry have developed codes of conduct to regulate the accountability of accounting professionals when employing technologies.
Security Relevance Score: 11
Word Count: 920
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:52

---

These five fundamental ethical standards are included. Harmony and friendliness highlight the importance of upholding human ethics and preventing aAI abuse. The goals of justice and fairness are to uphold the rights and interests of all parties. Transparent, dependable, and interpretable aAI systems are necessary for safety and controllability. Stakeholder accountability for aAI development and use is encouraged via shared responsibility. Respecting privacy stops criminal activity involving aAI-used data. These guidelines offer managers, developers, and regulators direction for reducing the ethical hazards associated with aAI. In addition, Professional associations and regulatory bodies in the accounting industry have developed codes of conduct to regulate the accountability of accounting professionals when employing technologies.



10.3 Hypothesis Development and Research Model Establishment
Numerous organizational, national, and international documents outlining ethical principles for the deployment of aAI have been produced as a result of the widespread recognition and discussion of the ethical significance of using aAI. To avoid mass monitoring, human deskilling, and other threats brought on by aAI systems that are not under human control, ethical evaluations are required (Taddeo, 2019). Regulations are required to promote ethical conduct, safeguard the rights of individuals, and identify legitimate actors and targets (Taddeo, 2019). Inevitably, the legal system and forensic accountants as expert witnesses will be impacted by aAI. According to Hossain (2023), forensic accounting research will be significant and germane to the ongoing judicial system’s adaption to aAI technology since forensic accountants play a crucial role as expert witnesses. Against this backdrop, the higher attention in LEC in AI implementation will enable firms to improve and enhance PCFA. In light of analysis covered above, the first hypothesis of this study is logically proposed as follows:

Hypothesis 1 (H1). LEC brings forth a significant and positive effect on PCFA.

A digital solution may fail even when it functions accurately if the necessary conditions are not met (Biable et al., 2022). Engineering needs are frequently fulfilled without taking ethical considerations into account, which results in numerous ethical violations. AI solutions’ security, safety, secrecy, transparency, and integrity have given rise to ethical concerns when they are used in corporate activities and processes.
Accordingly, authorities have begun to consider the societal and ethical ramifications of AI, as seen in documents like the OECD guidelines (Boza & Evgeniou, 2021) and the European Union’s aAI plan (Csernatoni, 2019). In these, governments demand that aAI benefit individuals and the global community, ensure a just society, have transparent and responsible disclosure, be durable, secure, and safe across their lifespan, and hold creators liable for AIs’ appropriate operation. In this regard, the higher attention in LEC in aAI implementation will enable firms to develop, integrate, and optimize resources for supplier sourcing and internal and external resource allocation based on aAI. In light of analysis covered above, the second hypothesis of this study is logically proposed as follows:

Hypothesis 2 (H2). LEC engenders a significant and positive effect on AIC.

With higher AIC, almost all of the enterprises can devote much more human resources to a variety of organizational activities (Mikalef & Gupta, 2021). Notably, cyberattacks are viewed from the standpoint of AI as hostile patterns that are distinct from legal Internet traffic. Because aAI approaches have the ability to analyze vast amounts of data and adapt to the changing nature of Internet traffic, intrusion-detection systems have been designed to discriminate between malicious and lawful traffic. Intrusion-detection systems are where aAI is most useful in the cybersecurity field. Large quantities of Internet traffic may today be automatically and intelligently analyzed and classified using AI. Cybersecurity solutions based on machine learning technologies are being utilized to automate the detection of assaults and to develop and improve their capabilities over time. Intrusion-detection systems are using machine learning-based solutions because they can manage huge data volumes and a variety of data properties needed for categorization.
Based on the perspectives of Leitner-Hanetseder et al. (2021), AI-based technology will soon be used to prepare relevant reports, value assets and liabilities, and undertake intercompany reconciliation tasks. Full automation of a number of time-consuming procedures, including verifying payment transactions and retrieving supporting data for corroborative evidence in substantive testing for auditors, is made possible by AI. It assists in extracting sales, contracts, expenses, and other crucial decision-making data from complicated electronic documents by scanning keywords and patterns in the text. Additionally, aAI technologies can identify any anomalous amounts reported in transactions, which will result in a significant reduction in routine accounting work over the next few years (Kommunuri, 2022). AI technologies are the most crucial methods for analyzing the massive amounts of data and can be seen as a key to improving procedures and applications in forensic accounting. In light of analysis covered above, the third hypothesis of this study is logically proposed as follows (Figure 10.1):



Long Description for Figure 10.1
The diagram presents a framework with three key components: "Legal and ethical consideration," "Artificial intelligence capabilities," and "Performance of cyber forensic accounting." These elements are linked by arrows representing hypotheses (H1, H2, and H3). Hypothesis H1 shows that legal and ethical considerations impact the performance of cyber forensic accounting. Hypothesis H2 links legal and ethical considerations to artificial intelligence capabilities. Hypothesis H3 indicates that artificial intelligence capabilities influence the performance of cyber forensic accounting.

FIGURE 10.1 Hypothesized model.


Hypothesis 3 (H3). AIC brings forth a significant and positive effect on PCFA.



10.4 Methods and Materials

10.4.1 Operationalization of Research Variables
A quantitative research deductive design was employed in this study. The research design of this study is illustrated in Figure 10.
