# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Kumar, Ahlad_ Kumar Chaudhary, Naveen_ Shastri, Apoorva S._ Sing - Digital Defence_ Harnessing the Power of Artificial Intelligence for Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics (2025, CRC Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 4 - Fusion of Deep Architectures in Intent-Driven Networks for Intrusion Detection
Obinna Johnbosco Awoke, Rajesh Prasad, Ndubuisi Godcares, and Najeeb Saiyed
DOI: 10.1201/9781032714813-4
Security Relevance Score: 7
Word Count: 366
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:52

---

Fusion of Deep Architectures in Intent-Driven Networks for Intrusion Detection
Obinna Johnbosco Awoke, Rajesh Prasad, Ndubuisi Godcares, and Najeeb Saiyed
DOI: 10.1201/9781032714813-4


4.1 Introduction
The society which we find ourselves presently in is a very advanced society which uses technology to solve so many real-world problems. The internet never ceases to be a part of this technologically advanced society. In fact, it is the backbone of so many more present advanced achievements.
The internet as a networking of various devices has immensely contributed to solving a real-world problem of resource management and control. The network is the lifeblood of modern organizations. To meet various demands of our now-dynamic business, the traditional networking paradigm has been making way for a more reliable, resourceful, and innovative way of networking known as Intent-based networking (IBN). IBN is an innovative approach in computer networks, which concerns managing a network to serve a desired business intent and not intents outside the business organization. This includes the configuration of the network to adhere to strict business policies. This has revolutionized high-level business objectives and has given organizations the privilege to define how their network will act. It has also simplified network management by abstracting the complexity of network configuration and operations, making it more intuitive and automated, thus enhancing various business objectives. It utilizes a network management approach that uses artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) to automate all the organizational tasks which can be applied across the network. It bridges the gap between business and IT by capturing business intent and continuously aligning the end-to-end network with that intent. The network can translate the intents into network policies. IBN gives enterprises the ability to design a flexible and scalable network while also using network automation software to accelerate performance. For data and network security, ML in various research has been integrated into these intent-based networks to detect anomaly activities in the network. An IBN infrastructure/architecture includes various stages which includes the definition of the intent, translation of the intent into actionable policies and configurations, implementation of the translated policies into the network infrastructure, continuous monitoring, maintenance, and continuous improvement through a feedback mechanism. These stages are illustrated in Figure 4.
