# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Kumar, Ahlad_ Kumar Chaudhary, Naveen_ Shastri, Apoorva S._ Sing - Digital Defence_ Harnessing the Power of Artificial Intelligence for Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics (2025, CRC Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - What is the effect of LEC on PCFA?
RQ2. Does AIC mediate the interconnection between LEC and PCFA?
Security Relevance Score: 3
Word Count: 337
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:52

---

What is the effect of LEC on PCFA?
RQ2. Does AIC mediate the interconnection between LEC and PCFA?

The current work is ground-breaking from a theoretical standpoint in the context of a developing country. By developing a framework that can interpret the impact of LEC on PCFA and, through this, offer specific recommendations, the current research’s findings expand the current frontiers of understandings on LEC in AI implementation in accounting practices (i.e., Bocean & Vărzaru, 2022; Zhang et al., 2023). This may be helpful for academics and aspiring professionals who want to employ AI in forensic accounting and cybersecurity. Additionally, the novelty and value come from giving academics and professionals alike a comprehensive view of the mediating role of AIC in the interconnection between LEC and PCFA. AI is one of the digital technologies that is pondered to have the biggest impact on accounting because it enables the identification of patterns in vast amounts of accounting data that can aid in decision-making for businesses and be used by stakeholders to conduct financial analyses. AIC is the capacity of an innovation team to use AI machines to mimic human cognitive capabilities and carry out activities intelligently, such as learning and problem-solving (Syam & Sharma, 2018).
In the practical significance, the empirical findings of this chapter will help practitioners better understand the impact of LEC on PCFA and the necessity to focus on developing and implementing LEC by providing them with useful information. The research’s observations provide clear and comprehensive instructions for executives who aspire to become AICs. As a result, the findings of the research may also assist senior managers in small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in better planning their aims and timely resource allocation in the interest of PCFA improvement. This chapter gave policymakers a clear understanding of how to create laws and policies for the use of LEC in AI implementation. It also gave them advice on how to focus their efforts on achieving PCFA through digitalization.
The remainder of this manuscript is scheduled as follows.
