# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Kumar, Ahlad_ Kumar Chaudhary, Naveen_ Shastri, Apoorva S._ Sing - Digital Defence_ Harnessing the Power of Artificial Intelligence for Cybersecurity and Digital Forensics (2025, CRC Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 10 - Insight into How Legal and Ethical Consideration Improve Artificial Intelligence Capabilities to Enhance the Performance of Cyber Forensic Accounting
Pham Quang Huy and M.A. Vu Kien Phuc
DOI: 10.1201/9781032714813-10
Security Relevance Score: 4
Word Count: 594
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:52

---

Insight into How Legal and Ethical Consideration Improve Artificial Intelligence Capabilities to Enhance the Performance of Cyber Forensic Accounting
Pham Quang Huy and M.A. Vu Kien Phuc
DOI: 10.1201/9781032714813-10


10.1 Introduction
The development of the accounting profession has been significantly influenced by Artificial Intelligence (AI) (Johnson et al., 2021). Companies currently collect and store massive amounts and a wide variety of data due to improvements in data collection technology and a significant decrease in storage costs. The necessity for technology like AI that can conduct successful analysis has been sparked by the growing availability of data. In order to complete particular tasks, AI uses robots to comprehend and learn from data. Nevertheless, the application of AI-based technologies is still in its infancy, little emphasis is given to examining their function, relevance, and influence in accounting (Mancini et al., 2021). A small amount of attention is given to the role and relevance of these technologies in the accounting environment, despite the fact that there are many academic and professional publications on the use of intelligent technologies in various areas, such as commercial and marketing activities, strategic processes, and business models. Therefore, research into how accountants can employ AI to improve performance is still in its early stages (Kommunuri, 2022).
Accounting is very relevant to cybersecurity and safety breaches (Gonçalves et al., 2022). Cybersecurity experts have recently begun to investigate AI methods to enhance cybersecurity. Overall, there are both positive and negative effects of AI on cybersecurity. The advent of AI in cybersecurity can be advantageous, but it can also present difficulties (Taddeo, 2019). The advent of cyber forensic accounting is driven by technological breakthroughs, modifications to corporate processes, regulatory reforms, and changes in the global economic environment (Hossain, 2023). Another new development is cyber forensic accounting, which looks into and guards against online financial fraud crimes like identity theft, hacking, and phishing (Akinbowale et al., 2020). In order to prevent financial crime, academics and professionals are concerned that the development of information technology will make it more difficult to apply the advantages of AI to forensic accounting.
Assuring the morality of decisions made using data provided by AI and other information technologies is one of the difficulties surrounding its usage in accounting (Bocean & Vărzaru, 2022). Due to the fact that digital technologies raise the ethical bar of decision-making, compliance with ethical criteria related to their use in accounting is crucial. Although accounting professionals are aware of the significance of making moral decisions when implementing and using AI, academic research on these ethical challenges has lagged. In reality, the ethical implications of utilizing any technologies in accounting have received little consideration. It is unknown whether ethical issues will arise from the actual use and use of AI in the accounting industry (Zhang et al., 2023). The ethical issues associated with the deployment of AI have recently come to the attention of authorities. Only a small amount of study has been done on the ethical implications of AI in the accounting profession (Zhang et al., 2023), particularly in the area of cyber forensic accounting.
To the best of our knowledge, there is currently no comprehensive framework on how legal and ethical consideration (LEC) can encourage AI capabilities (AICs) to improve and enhance the performance of cyber forensic accounting (PCFA) that can serve as a starting point for future researchers. Given the growing importance of LEC for applications of AI and the important contributions that AI may provide, this paucity of research is remarkable. Additionally, this theoretical gap sparks the fascinating research questions (RQs) as follows:

RQ
