# Security Chapter Extract
Book: MARK A RUSSO CISSP-ISSAP CEH IFPC - The Threat Hunt Process (THP) Roadmap_ A Pathway for Advanced Cybersecurity Active Measures (2019, Independently published) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - This
provides a high-level overview of the various cybersecurity functions with
a specific emphasis on the Hunt process.
Security Relevance Score: 15
Word Count: 1592
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:26

---

This
provides a high-level overview of the various cybersecurity functions with
a specific emphasis on the Hunt process.
 
 
The process provides high-confidence, repeatability, and identification
of both cybersecurity events and incidents. The business case development
process provides feedback to the THP to improve incident response
personnel actions with a defined capability to conduct follow-on responses
and forensic activities. The THP receives inputs primarily
[2]
 from the
following four areas:
1
. 
Cyber Threat Intelligence
 
(CTI)
2
. 
Automated Tool
3
. 
Business Case
 
Development
4
. 
Incident Response (IR)
 
These inputs generate new hunt scenarios and provide feedback to
incident response personnel.  These responses leverage the available
intelligence and further assists in ongoing analysis and forensic activities.
These areas provide the needed information for successful hunt team
operations and outcomes.
Both the manual and automated continuous monitoring applications and
devices are critical to THP success. 
Continuous Monitoring
 (ConMon) is an
integral component of an effective implementation of the National Institute
for Standards and Technology’s (NIST) Risk Management Framework
(RMF).  ConMon provides the next evolution in true progress within the
realm of cybersecurity; it has yet to be achieved by most companies and
agencies.  See Appendix B,
 
Continuous Monitoring’s Importance to the
THP
, for a deeper discussion of the role of ConMon and its direct support to
the THP.
 
What is Risk?
 
Risk is a key concern by key leaders and should be understood to make
resourcing decisions to support the THP. While threats are focused on the
inbound dangers such as nation-state hackers, insider threats, etc., risk is
focused on the potentialities of loss or harm to the organization. Risk, if
properly applied, helps senior leaders make critical decisions of how much
and where to focus limited resources against a threat—specific or broadly.
 
 
Risk
Threat
 
Definition
Definition
 
A measure of the extent to which an
entity is threatened by a potential
circumstance or event, and typically a
function of: (i) the adverse impacts that
would arise if the circumstance or event
occurs; and (ii) the likelihood of
occurrence. Information system-related
security risks are those risks that arise
from the loss of confidentiality,
integrity, or availability of information
or information systems and reflect the
potential adverse impacts to
organizational operations (including
mission, functions, image, or
reputation), organizational assets,
individuals, other organizations, and
the Nation.
 
Any circumstance or event with the
potential to adversely impact organizational
operations (including mission, functions,
image, or reputation), organizational assets,
individuals, other organizations, or the
Nation through an information system via
unauthorized access, destruction, disclosure,
modification of information, and/or denial
of service.
Also, many will confuse risk with threat and use the terms
interchangeably.  A threat, be it an intentional threat such as a hacker, or
natural disaster, is a subset of risk.  The Risk Management Framework
(RMF) created by NIST is based on active knowledge, recognition, and a
plan to address by the business or agency to provide a reportable and
repeatable mechanism that creates the real success of the concept of “risk
management.”  This is not “risk elimination;” it is about an active means to
manage risk, and any associated threats over time. 
The standard cybersecurity equation for risk can be computed as following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Three Elements of Risk
 
The Difference Between an ‘Event’ and an ‘Incident’
 
Incident Response (IR) primarily requires a plan.  It also requires
the identification of who or what agency is notified when a breach has
occurred. 
 
            The first effort should be identifying with, for example, government
representatives what constitutes a reportable event that formally becomes an
incident
. This could include a confirmed breach that has occurred to the IT
infrastructure.  Incidents could include anything from a Denial of Service
(DOS) attack—an overloading of outwardly facing web or mail servers-- or
exfiltration of data—where Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) data
has been copied or moved to outside of the organization’s firewall/perimeter. 
Incidents could also include the destruction of data that, for example, is
identified through ongoing audit activities.
Secondarily, who do you notify?  Do you alert, for example, an
assigned Contract Officer Representative (COR), the Contract Office itself,
DOD’s US Cybercommand at Fort Meade, MD, or possibly the Department
of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Computer Emergency Response Team
(CERT) 
(
https://www.us-cert.gov/forms/report
)?  
Cybersecurity personnel and
senior leaders will have to ask where to file standard government “incident”
reports.  These organizations should be able to provide templates and forms
specific to the agency’s own unique reporting requirements.
IR requires the testing of IR Plan (IRP) at least 
annually
. However, it
is suggested that organization’s test more often.  Until comfortable with the
IR “reporting chain,” 
practice, practice, practice
.
 
 
 

The DOD Cyber Incident Life Cycle.
 This diagram from the DOD is a
representative example of a typical “incident response life cycle.”  It is
intended to assist in IR activities, and will better assist in coordination with
government cybersecurity incident response organizations.  Recognizing this
as either an “event” (not necessarily a negative occurrence) versus an
“incident” is an internal determination by the leadership in coordination with
its cybersecurity and IT professional staffs to include the hunt team  An
incident specifically requires alerting the government as soon as the intrusion
is 
recognized
. 
Verify with the respective agency its reporting standards.  Typically,
events
 may not need to be reported based on the expansive impacts and
workloads to especially government cybersecurity response organizations.  In
the case of 
incidents
, the standard is 72-hours to submit a report; however,
the recommendation is 
as soon as possible
 due to the potential impacts
beyond the IT infrastructure.  Furthermore, it can pose a serious direct threat
to interconnected federal agency IT environments. 
The chart below categorizes current Department of Defense (DOD)
and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) common precedence
designations.  It provides both a standard categorization for identified events
and typically, precedence is used to identify the level of action and response
depending on the precedence “severity.”
              DOD Precedence Categorization.
 Nine (9) is the lowest event
where little is known, and IT personnel are attempting to determine whether
this activity should be elevated to alert leadership or to “close it out.”  One
(1) is a deep attack.  It identifies that the incident has gained “root” access. 
Root access can be construed as that the intruder has complete access to the
most restrictive security levels of a system.  This type of access usually is
interpreted to be complete and unfettered access to networks and data.
(SOURCE: Cyber Incident Handling Program, CJCSM 6510.01B, 18 December 2014,
http://www.jcs.mil/Portals/36/Documents/Library/Manuals/m651001.pdf?ver=2016-02-05-
175710-897
) 
 
 
 
 
 
No discussion of THP would be complete without some discussion of
the major nation-state actors that pose a daily threat to the global community. 
While Russia, Iran, and North Korea or known active attackers, China poses
the main threat for the foreseeable future.  China considers the use of an
assassin’s mace the key to its worldwide dominance.  Cybersecurity
exploitation is seen by the Chinese’s as a key element of its asymmetric
“warfare” against the West. (I recommend reading the book, 
The Hundred-
Year Marathon,
 by Michael Pillsbury to provide a much more expansive
understanding of China’s long-game strategy).
In February 2015, the Director of National Intelligence (DNI),
identified one of the major risks facing the United States (US) within the
“Cyber” domain is the insertion of malicious code into Information
Technology (IT) hardware and software items sold to the US. According to
the DNI: “Despite ever-improving network defenses, the diverse possibilities
for…supply chain operations to insert compromised hardware or software…
will hold nearly all [Information and Communication Technology] systems at
risk for years to come” (DNI, 2015, p.1).
While there are several foreign IT equipment and software companies
that have been accused of such activities, the major threat in this arena is the
Chinese company 
Huawei (Wah-way) Technologies Company, Limited
.  In
2012, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence had major
concerns.  Specific to its investigation of the operating practices of Huawei,
the committee reported that: “The threat posed [by Huawei/China] to U.S.
national-security interests… in the telecommunications supply chain is an
increasing priority...” (US House of Representatives, 2012, p.1).
While there are no specific unclassified details of such injections of
malicious code into Huawei products, in 2006, for example, a discreet ban by
several Western nations, to include the US, was initiated against the Chinese
firm of 
Lenovo
 Personal Computers.  Shortly after Lenovo purchased
International Business Machine’s (IBM) personal computing division, the use
or purchase of Lenovo PCs  “…due to backdoor vulnerabilities” (Infosec
Institute, 2013) was banned. 
Huawei represents a similar and more pervasive threat to the
international IT supply chain.  Huawei has both the means and motives to
compromise IT equipment and systems on the behalf of the Chinese
government. “…Huawei has refused to explain its relationship with the
Chinese government or the role of the Communist Party…inside the
company…” (Simonite, 2012), and it can be assumed, based on multiple
Huawei senior leaders with close ties with the People’s Liberation Army
(PLA) that Huawei has an explicit connection with the Chinese government.
The major motivation for Huawei, as a surrogate for the Chinese
government, is to support its 5-year Plan focused on it becoming a major
global economic super-power.  Huawei is implicitly aligned with this plan
that “State-owned enterprises are instructed to acquire assets perceived as
valuable by Beijing” (Scissors, 2013 ).  It continues a wide-range of
acquisitions to include mergers with American and other Western IT
companies.
The PLA’s Unit 61398 has been extensively analyzed by government
and private cybersecurity firms.  In 2013, 
Mandiant
 released an exhaustive
and authoritative report based upon deep-analysis of code and techniques
specific to Unit
