# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Michael Kofler - Scripting_ Automation with Bash, PowerShell, and Python (2024, Rheinwerk Publishing) - libgen.li
Chapter: 5851 - Should we learn about typos that alter the meaning or content errors, we will provide
            a list with corrections there, too.
Security Relevance Score: 3
Word Count: 1168
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:06

---

Should we learn about typos that alter the meaning or content errors, we will provide
            a list with corrections there, too.
         
Technical Issues
If you experience technical issues with your e-book or e-book account at Rheinwerk Computing, please feel free to contact our reader service: support@rheinwerk-publishing.com.
         
Please note, however, that issues regarding the screen presentation of the book content
            are usually not caused by errors in the e-book document. Because nearly every reading
            device (computer, tablet, smartphone, e-book reader) interprets the EPUB or Mobi file
            format differently, it is unfortunately impossible to set up the e-book document in
            such a way that meets the requirements of all use cases.
         
In addition, not all reading devices provide the same text presentation functions
            and not all functions work properly. Finally, you as the user also define with your
            settings how the book content is displayed on the screen.
         
The EPUB format, as currently provided and handled by the device manufacturers, is
            actually primarily suitable for the display of mere text documents, such as novels.
            Difficulties arise as soon as technical text contains figures, tables, footnotes,
            marginal notes, or programming code. For more information, please refer to the section
            Notes on the Screen Presentation and the following section.
         
Should none of the recommended settings satisfy your layout requirements, we recommend
            that you use the PDF version of the book, which is available for download in your
            online library.
         
Recommendations for Screen Presentation and Navigation
We recommend using a sans-serif font, such as Arial or Seravek, and a low font size of approx. 30–40% in portrait format
            and 20–30% in landscape format. The background shouldn’t be too bright.
         
Make use of the hyphenation option. If it doesn't work properly, align the text to the left margin. Otherwise,
            justify the text.
         
To perform searches in the e-book, the index of the book will reliably guide you to the really relevant
            pages of the book. If the index doesn't help, you can use the search function of your
            reading device.
         
Since it is available as a double-page spread in landscape format, the table of contents we’ve included probably gives a better overview of the content and the structure
            of the book than the corresponding function of your reading device. To enable you
            to easily open the table of contents anytime, it has been included as a separate entry
            in the device-generated table of contents.
         
If you want to zoom in on a figure, tap the respective figure once. By tapping once again, you return to the previous screen. If you tap twice (on the
            iPad), the figure is displayed in the original size and then has to be zoomed in to
            the desired size. If you tap once, the figure is directly zoomed in and displayed
            with a higher resolution.
         
For books that contain programming code, please note that the code lines may be wrapped incorrectly or displayed incompletely
            as of a certain font size. In case of doubt, please reduce the font size.
         
About Us and Our Program
The website https://www.rheinwerk-computing.com provides detailed and first-hand information on our current publishing program. Here,
            you can also easily order all of our books and e-books. Information on Rheinwerk Publishing
            Inc. and additional contact options can also be found at https://www.rheinwerk-computing.com.
         










Legal Notes
This section contains the detailed and legally binding usage conditions for this e-book.
Copyright Note
This publication is protected by copyright in its entirety. All usage and exploitation
            rights are reserved by the author and Rheinwerk Publishing; in particular the right
            of reproduction and the right of distribution, be it in printed or electronic form.
            © 2024 by Rheinwerk Publishing Inc., Boston (MA)

Your Rights as a User
You are entitled to use this e-book for personal purposes only. In particular, you
            may print the e-book for personal use or copy it as long as you store this copy on
            a device that is solely and personally used by yourself. You are not entitled to any
            other usage or exploitation.
         
In particular, it is not permitted to forward electronic or printed copies to third
            parties. Furthermore, it is not permitted to distribute the e-book on the internet,
            in intranets, or in any other way or make it available to third parties. Any public
            exhibition, other publication, or any reproduction of the e-book beyond personal use
            are expressly prohibited. The aforementioned does not only apply to the e-book in
            its entirety but also to parts thereof (e.g., charts, pictures, tables, sections of
            text).
         
Copyright notes, brands, and other legal reservations as well as the digital watermark may not be removed from the e-book.
         

Digital Watermark
This e-book copy contains a digital watermark, a signature that indicates which person may use this copy.
            
If you, dear reader, are not this person, you are violating the copyright. So please
               refrain from using this e-book and inform us about this violation. A brief email to
               info@rheinwerk-publishing.com is sufficient. Thank you!
            

Trademarks
The common names, trade names, descriptions of goods, and so on used in this publication
            may be trademarks without special identification and subject to legal regulations
            as such.
         
All products mentioned in this book are registered or unregistered trademarks of their
            respective companies.
         
Limitation of Liability
Regardless of the care that has been taken in creating texts, figures, and programs,
            neither the publisher nor the author, editor, or translator assume any legal responsibility
            or any liability for possible errors and their consequences.
         


The Document Archive








The Document Archive
The Document Archive contains all figures, tables, and footnotes, if any, for your
            convenience.
         











Figure 2.1    
            Git Homepage Showing the Current Version Number in the Bottom-Right Corner











Figure 3.1    
            Computer Running Bash Version 5.1











Figure 3.2    
            Ubuntu with Bash in a Terminal Window on Windows











Figure 3.3    
            Easy Access to the Linux Home Directory in Windows Explorer











Figure 4.1    
            Installing the Current PowerShell Version











Figure 4.2    
            Countless Options for Influencing the Appearance and Function of the Terminal











Figure 4.3    
            Adding a Custom Script Directory to the Path Variable











Figure 5.1    
            Python Installer for Windows











Figure 5.2    
            The Hello World Script in the VS Code Editor on Windows











Figure 7.1    
            Graphical Output of cmdlet Results











Figure 9.1    
            Testing a Regular Expression for Processing Apache Log Files











Figure 10.1    
            Reading JSON Files in the Terminal Using fx











Figure 11.1    
            Microsoft Windows Task Scheduler’s Antiquated UI











Figure 11.2    
            The log-date.ps1 Script to Be Run by PowerShell, with C:\Users\kofler as the Active Directory











Figure 13.1    
            Visual Studio Code with the Python Extension











Figure 13.2    
            Editing a Bash Script in VS Code on the External Linux Server (eine-firma.de)











Figure 14.1    
            A Test Repository in the GitHub Web Interface











Figure 14.2    
            Basic Git Commands











Figure 14.3    
            The State of the Local Repository











Figure 16.1    
            Installing ImageMagick on Windows











Figure 17.1    
            The Rheinwerk Publishing Website in a Web Browser in Development Mode











Figure 17.2    
            GitHub Status











Figure 18.1    
            PUT Request Executed Using Postman











Figure 18.2    
            Electricity Prices for the Next 24 Hours (Pure Energy Prices Including VAT for Austria at the Beginning of April 2023)
