# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 3 - We consider that the reason for the prevalence of this domain is that the potential consequences of cyberattacks on this type of critical infrastructure are more severe than for other types of systems.GRID NetWars is a commercial system using emulation of power systems based on virtualization technologies to make it possible to conduct training related to power distribution and generation. A wide variety of training topics are included, such as stages of power grid cyberattacks, process manipulation, and cyberattack effects on reliability and system integrity.For GridAttackSim, which is an academia system, the training target is actually the smart grid, which is a power grid that integrates communication technologies to improve power delivery. This actually increases the attack surface of the system, hence the pressing need to address cybersecurity training for this specific domain. GridAttackSim uses a co-simulation approach to integrate the power grid and communication network simulation into an overall smart grid simulator. The source code of the framework and several attack profiles and smart grid scenarios are publicly available, meaning that anyone can use and modify it.The third example we provided, Soteria ARENA, on the other hand, has a different approach. In that cyber range, a comprehensive scenario is used that includes a water plant, a power plant, and even an airport infrastructure. Combined with miniature physical models of the systems, Soteria ARENA enables realistic critical infrastructure training through a hands-on experience with real-world devices and physical automation systems.We note that several of the ICS/SCADA cyber ranges we presented also include training in connection with critical infrastructure, such as oil and gas plants, or the railroad system. Therefore, we conclude that even though only keywords such as ICS or SCADA are shown in the description of some cyber ranges, the actual training content may be related to critical infrastructure as well. Consequently, interested learners should always check in detail the available information to determine the types of training scenarios that are actually available in a cyber range.
Security Relevance Score: 7
Word Count: 711
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

We consider that the reason for the prevalence of this domain is that the potential consequences of cyberattacks on this type of critical infrastructure are more severe than for other types of systems.GRID NetWars is a commercial system using emulation of power systems based on virtualization technologies to make it possible to conduct training related to power distribution and generation. A wide variety of training topics are included, such as stages of power grid cyberattacks, process manipulation, and cyberattack effects on reliability and system integrity.For GridAttackSim, which is an academia system, the training target is actually the smart grid, which is a power grid that integrates communication technologies to improve power delivery. This actually increases the attack surface of the system, hence the pressing need to address cybersecurity training for this specific domain. GridAttackSim uses a co-simulation approach to integrate the power grid and communication network simulation into an overall smart grid simulator. The source code of the framework and several attack profiles and smart grid scenarios are publicly available, meaning that anyone can use and modify it.The third example we provided, Soteria ARENA, on the other hand, has a different approach. In that cyber range, a comprehensive scenario is used that includes a water plant, a power plant, and even an airport infrastructure. Combined with miniature physical models of the systems, Soteria ARENA enables realistic critical infrastructure training through a hands-on experience with real-world devices and physical automation systems.We note that several of the ICS/SCADA cyber ranges we presented also include training in connection with critical infrastructure, such as oil and gas plants, or the railroad system. Therefore, we conclude that even though only keywords such as ICS or SCADA are shown in the description of some cyber ranges, the actual training content may be related to critical infrastructure as well. Consequently, interested learners should always check in detail the available information to determine the types of training scenarios that are actually available in a cyber range.
11.3.5.4 IoMT and Healthcare Cyber RangesThe healthcare domain is undoubtedly a very important area for cybersecurity, given the obvious associated risks. However, there are many challenges in setting up dedicated cyber ranges, which may explain the smaller number of systems in this category. Nevertheless, the two examples we provided, which are both from the private sector, clearly demonstrate the commercial interest that exists for conducting cybersecurity training in this area.The cyber ranges we presented both rely on emulation techniques to create the healthcare-related training environment. For Healthcare Cyber Range, for instance, replicas of patient records and other social and health information systems, as well as national services are included in the environment. Moreover, an intensive care unit model with a physical patient simulator, as well as medical equipment is also available in addition to the virtual systems.Healthcare NetWars, on the other hand, relies solely on emulation techniques, with the focus being apparently almost exclusively on the cyber aspects of healthcare systems. Nevertheless, a wide range of training topics is available, such as telemedicine and web application security, Electronic Medical Records (EMR) and incident analysis, and medical device IoT security.Another example of a healthcare cyber range is AERAS, although the practical results of the project are only expected in 2025 [1]. Thus, AERAS is an ongoing EU Horizon 2020 project that aims to develop a realistic and adaptable cyber range platform for systems and organizations in the healthcare sector. The solution will be delivered at technology readiness level TRL-7, namely via a system prototype demonstration in two pilot operational environments. We look forward to the deliverables of this project, which promises to bring a significant contribution to the research in the field of cybersecurity training for healthcare.


11.4 DiscussionIn what follows, we will discuss several key aspects regarding the general and specialized cyber ranges that we have presented in this chapter. This will be followed by several recommendations regarding cyber ranges that we consider to be the best overall in terms of training scope breadth and training content richness.11.4.1 General Cyber RangesThe general-purpose cyber ranges we introduced in Sect. 11.2 were selected based on their characteristics of being cybersecurity training platforms that make it possible to conduct training activities that are more complex and realistic in comparison with the CTF platforms discussed in Chap.
