# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 10 - CTF platforms are those platforms that most participants encounter when they set about to attend cybersecurity training activities. Our focus was on online CTF platforms and open-source ones, as they are the most accessible.This was followed by an examination of cyber range platforms in Chap. 11. Cyber ranges are the most advanced type of cybersecurity training platform, as they provide training environments that are the most realistic in terms of structure and content. We first analyzed general cyber ranges in government, private sector, and academia, followed by more specialized cyber ranges in domains such as IoT, Industrial Control Systems (ICS), and Internet of Medical Things (IoMT).Detailed Case Study The detailed case study of the CyTrONE integrated cybersecurity training framework in Chap. 12 was used to demonstrate how a training platform can be designed to meet various training requirements. Moreover, the training content and training environment used in CyTrONE illustrated how these important aspects of a training platform could be implemented.As a complement to the detailed case study, we introduced a training platform capability assessment methodology in Chap. 13. This methodology was then used to assess the characteristics of CyTrONE with a twofold purpose: clarifying the capabilities of the discussed framework, and illustrating how the assessment methodology can be applied in practice.
Security Relevance Score: 17
Word Count: 2589
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

CTF platforms are those platforms that most participants encounter when they set about to attend cybersecurity training activities. Our focus was on online CTF platforms and open-source ones, as they are the most accessible.This was followed by an examination of cyber range platforms in Chap. 11. Cyber ranges are the most advanced type of cybersecurity training platform, as they provide training environments that are the most realistic in terms of structure and content. We first analyzed general cyber ranges in government, private sector, and academia, followed by more specialized cyber ranges in domains such as IoT, Industrial Control Systems (ICS), and Internet of Medical Things (IoMT).Detailed Case Study The detailed case study of the CyTrONE integrated cybersecurity training framework in Chap. 12 was used to demonstrate how a training platform can be designed to meet various training requirements. Moreover, the training content and training environment used in CyTrONE illustrated how these important aspects of a training platform could be implemented.As a complement to the detailed case study, we introduced a training platform capability assessment methodology in Chap. 13. This methodology was then used to assess the characteristics of CyTrONE with a twofold purpose: clarifying the capabilities of the discussed framework, and illustrating how the assessment methodology can be applied in practice.

14.2 Key TakeawaysIn what follows, we will present several insights that we consider to be the key takeaways of this book: 1.Technical Versus Awareness Training: Technical cybersecurity training and cybersecurity awareness training have different targets and intrinsic characteristics. Consequently, suitable approaches must be used for each of them in order to achieve the most effective training results. 2.Interdependency of Training Forms: The three forms of technical cybersecurity training—attack, forensics, and defense training—can be discussed separately, and are often conducted as such. However, the strong interdependency between them is an essential aspect that needs to be considered thoroughly by trainees and organizers alike. 3.Training Methodology Recommendations: For all the forms of cybersecurity training that we discussed, a distinction between basic and advanced skills can be made. Fundamental training focusing on practical hands-on exercises is most suitable for acquiring general-purpose basic knowledge and skills. On the other hand, standards-based training that relies on top-down processes is required for acquiring the advanced skills needed by cybersecurity professionals. 4.Need for Defense Training: Many cybersecurity training platforms that focus on attack and forensics training are available. Nevertheless, since defense skills are the most important in a professional setting, more defense-oriented training platforms and programs, such as Hardening Project, are needed to fill the current cybersecurity workforce gap. 5.Training Platform Development: To design an effective cybersecurity training platform, modeling its functionality is a powerful mechanism for ensuring that all the required features are present. Furthermore, using a capability assessment methodology makes it possible to determine what features the implementation effort should focus on. 

14.3 Toward the FutureBridging the cybersecurity workforce gap that we have mentioned on several occasions in this book will take years. To achieve this critical goal, relevant organizations must relentlessly conduct education and training activities in ever more compelling and diverse forms. Some possible steps in the context of the EU cybersecurity education have already been highlighted in [6], such as the enrichment of the curriculum for the poorly covered knowledge areas, and the more effective use of cyber ranges for skill building. In this final section, we will endeavor to analyze what is to be expected in the future with regard to cybersecurity education and training.14.3.1 Cybersecurity Training ProspectsLet us start by discussing some of the current trends and future perspectives in connection with cybersecurity education and training that we consider most consequential for defining a general outlook.14.3.1.1 Current TrendsThe present tendencies in cybersecurity education and training are a good indicator of the short-term evolution of the field. The International Information System Security Certification Consortium, Inc. (ISC2) has highlighted several important trends in this regard, as follows [8]:Growing demand for specialized training programs that focus on hot topics, such as threat hunting, incident response, cloud security, AI and blockchain.General shift toward online learning platforms, as well as virtual cybersecurity training environments, which are used in a self-paced style, and are combined with self-study materials.Increased recognition of the advantages of ethical hacking and offensive security training for helping organizations identify and mitigate various security threats and vulnerabilities.Significant need to integrate compliance-focused training in the cybersecurity education curriculum in order to address relevant data protection laws and regulations, such as GDPR.Increasing popularity of scenario-based training that mimics real-world cyber threats, an approach that keeps the trainees engaged, and makes the training more effective, including via the use of gamification techniques.Noticeable expansion of vendor-neutral certifications and training that provide a broad view on a wide variety of cybersecurity concepts.
The above considerations can help cybersecurity training organizers make informed decisions about the features and characteristics that should be added in the short term to the training programs they manage. However, over the years, the cybersecurity landscape will evolve as well, as we will discuss next.
14.3.1.2 Future ProspectsCybersecurity education and training are long-term efforts. Therefore, considering the future prospects of cybersecurity in general, and education and training in particular, is very important as a way to support training organizers when considering future development strategies.The Future of Cybersecurity Predicting the future is not an easy task, especially for a dynamic field such as cybersecurity. Although not all opinions regarding the future of cybersecurity can fully agree, a relative consensus of several experts was reported in [11], as summarized below:Cloud computing is expected to still be in high demand due to its convenience, even though this will only perpetuate the security risks associated with it. However, peer-to-peer networks based on blockchain may emerge as an alternative to the cloud that provides better security—at least for some applications.Passwords, which are one of the oldest and biggest security risks, may still be in existence in the foreseeable future due to their high usability. Nevertheless, we note that passkey technology, which has become more widely spread recently, may represent a viable and secure alternative, depending on its adoption rate.The adoption rate of AI technologies, both in the society at large, but also in the field of cybersecurity will keep increasing. This makes very plausible a scenario in which threat hunting bots will fight against malicious ones, with humans fine tuning their behavior from behind the scene.As more and more data is stored online, it is expected that the number of data breaches will increase. The size of the data breeches is expected to grow as well, a prediction that has already been confirmed by the record-breaking leak of 10 billion stolen passwords that were shared online in July 2024 [9].Major threats, such as supply chain and infrastructure attacks will become even more significant in terms of scale. In particular, nation-state attacks targeting the critical infrastructure are expected to multiply considerably.Cybersecurity Training of the Future Cybersecurity training needs to address the needs of the organizations that request the training, which will definitely evolve alongside the forseen changes in the cybersecurity landscape discussed above.Consequently, it is difficult to create a future-proof training program, and the best strategy is to have high flexibility in adapting the content and methodologies of the training programs and platforms to the evolving training targets. Some possible approaches for reaching this goal, based on the suggestions in [8], are as follows:Provide training modules that can be accessed online anytime and anywhere, including on mobile devices, and which are continuously updated.Make use of interactive, game-based learning methods that engage participants and render the training more effective.Design specialized training modules that take into account the particular risks of the various departments in an organization, as well as those specific to the organization as a whole (e.g., critical infrastructure attacks, etc.).Employ AI technologies in the training platform to create personalized training paths that adapt to the characteristics of the trainees, their results to date, etc.
Another aspect that we consider of great significance for the future of cybersecurity training is to achieve some form of “standardization” regarding the manner in which training content and training environments are represented in cybersecurity training platforms. This would make it possible to create ecosystems in which content creators and training organizers can share their content, either free of charge or at a cost, and that content would function on any training platform that accepts that standard format as input. Unfortunately, efforts so far, including by the author [3], have failed to gain traction in the research community. Nevertheless, we still hope that it will happen one day.

14.3.2 Cybersecurity Training in the Age of AIAs mentioned already, given the more and more widely spread use of AI technologies in our society, the implications of AI have started becoming evident in the field of cybersecurity training. There are two main perspectives that we need to examine regarding this topic—how AI could be used for cybersecurity training, and what cybersecurity training should be used for in relation with AI—as discussed next.14.3.2.1 AI for Cybersecurity TrainingAI technologies have already been used to support cybersecurity education and training in various manners. For instance, research on improving penetration testing via the use of reinforcement learning, and awareness training through the use of natural language processing, was presented in [4].This trend will definitely continue, especially by employing AI to automate those tasks that are too demanding for security experts in terms of effort, skills, or even just time. Some possible examples when considering the three forms of cybersecurity training that we discussed in this book are provided below.Attack Training When conducting attack training activities, an AI-based cyber defense agent could be used to actively defend the target system. This would make it possible to provide a realistic training environment in which trainees can practice penetration testing skills in conditions similar to real life, as opposed to the typical statical environments that are currently employed when human defenders are not involved in the training.Forensics Training In the case of forensics training, an AI-based cyberattack agent could be used to target the training environment as one step of the environment creation phase. The trainees could then investigate the consequences of the cyberattack to analyze its mechanisms, as well as compare their conclusions to the actual attack techniques that were used.Defense Training Defense training too can make use of an AI-based cyberattack agent, in particular to reproduce live attack scenarios. In this case, participants would be able to conduct hands-on exercises in realistic cybersecurity training conditions by practicing their defense skills against the AI agent in real time. Moreover, such a scenario could also be used to evaluate the effectiveness of defense techniques, since if an attack fails it signifies the defense was successful, which can be recorded automatically, similar to the interactive methodology described in [12].
14.3.2.2 Cybersecurity Training for AIThe advent of AI means that, in the very near future, AI technologies will permeate all layers of the society. However, AI technologies bring their intrinsic risks related to cybersecurity. In fact, various offensive techniques from the field of cybersecurity are already being used on large AI models, which are subject to threats such as:Prompt injection attacks that use maliciously crafted prompts to compromise the output of an AI model.Data poisoning attacks that rely on malicious training data for the same purpose of compromising model output.Backdooring attacks, which in the case of AI refer to creating a model that behaves as expected for typical input data, but produces malicious output for specific inputs selected by the attacker.
Moreover, red teaming methodology has also been adapted to the field of AI, where AI red teams try to use attack techniques such as those described above to compromise AI models developed by their own organization. In this scenario, the developers of the AI models are those who play the role of the blue team, trying to defend their models. The idea that the developers will also need to protect the society from the potential harms caused by the AI models they created, which become the “attackers,” has also been suggested [1].Consequently, it is absolutely necessary for cybersecurity training to integrate AI-related training activities within its scope. For example, we can imagine including an attack training section dedicated to prompt injection attacks, forensics training activities teaching how to identify attacks on AI models, and defense training focused on mitigating those types of attacks.

14.3.3 From Cybersecurity to TrustworthinessThroughout this book, we have discussed issues related to cybersecurity and cybersecurity training. However, according to the Society 5.0 vision put forward by the Japanese government, we are advancing toward a human-centered society that will use a highly integrated cyberspace and physical space structure to address a wide range of economic development and social issues [7]. This tight integration of the cyberspace and physical space means that disturbances originating from the cyberspace will no longer be limited to it, and could have potential consequences in the physical space. Hence, pure cybersecurity approaches will become insufficient for addressing the entire range of issues that will arise.Trustworthiness Efforts aimed at dealing with the inadequacy of approaches based only on cybersecurity strategies first started in the field of Industrial IoT, being spearheaded by the Industry IoT Consortium (IIC). Thus, IIC has proposed a definition for the broader concept of trustworthiness that emphasizes the multitude of aspects that need to be considered in this context, as follows [2]:Trustworthiness Degree of confidence one has that the system performs as expected with characteristics including safety, security, privacy, reliability and resilience in the face of environmental disturbances, human errors, system faults and attacks.Also focusing on the area of Cyber Physical Systems (CPS) and IoT is the trustworthiness assurance framework for IoT systems defined in [5], which attempts to establish a generic methodology based on trustworthiness assurance levels for managing trust with regard to IoT/CPS. Based on the work done in this ares, we consider that the shift from cybersecurity to trustworthiness approaches is a possible solution for coping with the challenges to be expected in the future society.Trustworthiness Training Given the transition from cybersecurity to trustworthiness, the scope of cybersecurity training will need to be extended to also cover issues related to trustworthiness. In particular, it will be important to conduct training regarding the possible consequences of cyberspace incidents in the physical space, as well as the expected effects in the reverse direction, combined with teaching appropriate mitigation techniques for both these cases.It can be said that current security training programs focusing on Industrial Control Systems (ICS), such as the ICS410: ICS/SCADA Security Essentials course provided by SANS Institute [10], are a good start in this direction. However, they lack the breadth that will be required to address all the needs of Society 5.0.We conclude by saying that the road ahead for improving cybersecurity education and training is still long, and challenges abound. We hope that this book will become a useful instrument in this context, and urge our readers to join us in the effort of pushing forward toward this shared goal, thus contributing to the creation of a better and safer society for everyone.

References1.Bajema N (2024) Why are large AI models being red teamed? https://​spectrum.​ieee.​org/​red-team-ai-llms. Accessed 1 Jul 2024
2.Baudoin C, Bournival E, Buchheit M, Simmon E, Zarkout B (2024) Industry Internet of things vocabulary. https://​www.​iiconsortium.​org/​wp-content/​uploads/​sites/​2/​2022/​04/​Industry-IoT-Vocabulary.​pdf. Accessed 1 Jul 2024
3.Beuran R (2019) Towards an open exchange format for cybersecurity training content. In: Usenix security symposium, lightning talks presentations
4.Beuran R, Hu Z, Zeng Y, Tan Y (2023) Artificial intelligence for cybersecurity education and training. Springer International Publishing, Cham, pp 103–
