# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 38 - A summary of each content category is presented in Table 12.5, including the number of challenges in each of them; additional details about each category are discussed next.Table 12.5Overview of the CTF-style training content set created for CyTrONENameCategory descriptionCountBinaryAnalyze executable and non-executable binary files7CryptoDecipher messages encoded with various techniques8NetworkInvestigate network traffic and network services8OSPractice the use of OS management and utility commands7WebExploit various types of web server vulnerabilities8
Binary This category includes challenges related to the analysis of binary files. Some of the provided binary files are executable programs that contain flags embedded in the machine code representation. The other ones are a variety of non-executable files, such as images and archives. To solve such challenges related to binary files, trainees must examine their content, determine their type, attempt to execute the files, modify them as needed, try to decompress them, etc.Crypto The challenges in this category task trainees with deciphering messages that have been encoded using various encryption techniques. For some challenges, very basic techniques are used, such as the Caesar cipher. However, most challenges require trainees to use tools such as openssl, to attempt brute-force cracking, use knowledge of standard ciphers and algorithms (e.g., RSA), interact with web servers that provide encryption services and try to crack them, and so on.Network In this category are included challenges related to network protocols and services. Some of the challenges require trainees to examine the content of the provided network packet capture files by using network analysis tools to investigate the content of protocols such as SMTP, FTP, and DNS. For other challenges, trainees must interact with various network services and try to obtain the flags by using techniques such as port knocking or even Denial of Service (DoS) attacks.OS In order to let trainees practice the use of typical operating system commands, we have created several specific challenges in this category. Some of the challenges require knowledge of OS management commands, such as ps, top, netstat, and so on. Other challenges require abilities regarding various OS utility commands, such as cat, grep, and file.Web This category includes challenges related to attack techniques that can be used to target web servers. The techniques that trainees must master to be able to solve some of the challenges are relatively standard, such as Cross-Site Scripting (XSS), SQL injection, and directory traversal. However, several challenges require deeper knowledge about web technologies, such as JavaScript, HTTP, PHP, and so on. Since the skills required to address the challenges in this category are the most advanced among those in the CTF-style training content set, we provide a summary of all the Web category challenges in Table 12.6 for illustration purposes.Table 12.6Overview of the Web category challenges in the CTF-style training content setIdChallenge description1Exploit a web server with an XSS vulnerability2Exploit a web server with a directory traversal vulnerability3Learn about the robots exclusion protocol (REP)4Exploit a JavaScript vulnerability in a login page5Learn about the HTTP basic access authentication protocol6Exploit a vulnerability in the code of an HTML form7Perform an SQL injection attack on a web server8Exploit a vulnerability in an insecure PHP application
Security Relevance Score: 10
Word Count: 953
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

A summary of each content category is presented in Table 12.5, including the number of challenges in each of them; additional details about each category are discussed next.Table 12.5Overview of the CTF-style training content set created for CyTrONENameCategory descriptionCountBinaryAnalyze executable and non-executable binary files7CryptoDecipher messages encoded with various techniques8NetworkInvestigate network traffic and network services8OSPractice the use of OS management and utility commands7WebExploit various types of web server vulnerabilities8
Binary This category includes challenges related to the analysis of binary files. Some of the provided binary files are executable programs that contain flags embedded in the machine code representation. The other ones are a variety of non-executable files, such as images and archives. To solve such challenges related to binary files, trainees must examine their content, determine their type, attempt to execute the files, modify them as needed, try to decompress them, etc.Crypto The challenges in this category task trainees with deciphering messages that have been encoded using various encryption techniques. For some challenges, very basic techniques are used, such as the Caesar cipher. However, most challenges require trainees to use tools such as openssl, to attempt brute-force cracking, use knowledge of standard ciphers and algorithms (e.g., RSA), interact with web servers that provide encryption services and try to crack them, and so on.Network In this category are included challenges related to network protocols and services. Some of the challenges require trainees to examine the content of the provided network packet capture files by using network analysis tools to investigate the content of protocols such as SMTP, FTP, and DNS. For other challenges, trainees must interact with various network services and try to obtain the flags by using techniques such as port knocking or even Denial of Service (DoS) attacks.OS In order to let trainees practice the use of typical operating system commands, we have created several specific challenges in this category. Some of the challenges require knowledge of OS management commands, such as ps, top, netstat, and so on. Other challenges require abilities regarding various OS utility commands, such as cat, grep, and file.Web This category includes challenges related to attack techniques that can be used to target web servers. The techniques that trainees must master to be able to solve some of the challenges are relatively standard, such as Cross-Site Scripting (XSS), SQL injection, and directory traversal. However, several challenges require deeper knowledge about web technologies, such as JavaScript, HTTP, PHP, and so on. Since the skills required to address the challenges in this category are the most advanced among those in the CTF-style training content set, we provide a summary of all the Web category challenges in Table 12.6 for illustration purposes.Table 12.6Overview of the Web category challenges in the CTF-style training content setIdChallenge description1Exploit a web server with an XSS vulnerability2Exploit a web server with a directory traversal vulnerability3Learn about the robots exclusion protocol (REP)4Exploit a JavaScript vulnerability in a login page5Learn about the HTTP basic access authentication protocol6Exploit a vulnerability in the code of an HTML form7Perform an SQL injection attack on a web server8Exploit a vulnerability in an insecure PHP application



12.4 CyTrONE Training EnvironmentFor CyTrONE, the term cyber range is used to denote the training environment used in the framework. Note that this is a more limited scope in comparison to cyber range platforms, for which it often refers to the entire training system, including education features, etc. However, we will keep the original meaning in our presentation to maintain compatibility with all CyTrONE research papers and documentation.With this distinction in mind, in what follows, we will examine the manner in which cyber ranges are described in CyTrONE and review several representative cyber range examples.12.4.1 Cyber Range DescriptionCyTrONE uses a cyber range description in text format to represent the environment that must be created for a given training activity. The cyber range description in CyTrONE is considered to be one of a pair of files, alongside the training content representation discussed already, that together provide all the information needed to conduct the training activity.The reason why this information is separated into two distinct files in CyTrONE is that it facilitates the reuse of cyber range descriptions. This is because the same training environment can be used for different training activities, with different associated tasks, depending on goals and circumstances. For instance, one can imagine a set of easy questions with detailed hints for beginners, and a set of more complex questions with minimum hints for more advanced trainees, although both sets of tasks are associated with the same cyber range.An overview of the CyTrONE cyber range representation format will be discussed next, followed by details of the corresponding file syntax, in order to illustrate how cyber range elements can be represented in practice.12.4.1.1 Representation OverviewSimilar to the way in which training content is represented, the cyber range description also uses YAML as file format. Again this makes it possible to leverage the advantages the YAML format offers, as discussed in connection with the representation of training content in Sect. 12.3.1.1.As an example of a cyber range representation in CyTrONE, we display in Fig. 12.3 an excerpt of an actual cyber range description file. This excerpt originates from a sample file included in the CyTrONE distribution released on GitHub [8], namely database/NIST-level1-range.yml.The image displays a configuration file in YAML format detailing settings for a virtual machine environment. It includes sections for host settings, guest settings, and clone settings. The host settings define identifiers and addresses. The guest settings specify a desktop virtual machine with tasks such as adding an account with the username "daniel" and password "JamesBond," installing the package "wireshark" using "yum," and emulating an SSH attack targeting the account "daniel" with 54 attempts on March 28,
