# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 8 - For each class, we included in the table a description of the functions that can be performed using the modules in that class, as well as an approximate count of the number of modules in it.Table 4.8Overview of the Metasploit module classesNameModule class descriptionCountAuxiliaryPerform tasks such as manipulating a target machine, analyzing and gathering data, DoS attacks, scanning operations, running support servers, etc.1200EncoderEncode data via algorithms such as bitwise XOR, for example, before it is transmitted over the network50EvasionGenerate evasive payloads without the need of external tools, for instance, to avoid anti-virus software10ExploitLeverage vulnerabilities in order to execute a provided payload consisting of arbitrary code2400NopGenerate ‘no operation’ instructions, such as those that are typically used to perform stack overflow attacks10PayloadEncapsulate arbitrary code that is to be later used as payload in an exploit1400PostGather, collect and enumerate data from a host that has been compromised400
Security Relevance Score: 15
Word Count: 1960
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

For each class, we included in the table a description of the functions that can be performed using the modules in that class, as well as an approximate count of the number of modules in it.Table 4.8Overview of the Metasploit module classesNameModule class descriptionCountAuxiliaryPerform tasks such as manipulating a target machine, analyzing and gathering data, DoS attacks, scanning operations, running support servers, etc.1200EncoderEncode data via algorithms such as bitwise XOR, for example, before it is transmitted over the network50EvasionGenerate evasive payloads without the need of external tools, for instance, to avoid anti-virus software10ExploitLeverage vulnerabilities in order to execute a provided payload consisting of arbitrary code2400NopGenerate ‘no operation’ instructions, such as those that are typically used to perform stack overflow attacks10PayloadEncapsulate arbitrary code that is to be later used as payload in an exploit1400PostGather, collect and enumerate data from a host that has been compromised400


4.3.4 Attack Training PlatformsFor illustration purposes, we provide below two examples of platforms that we consider particularly useful for attack training. The examples are selected from the CTF platforms discussed in Chap. 10, since the online nature of CTF platforms makes them easily accessible:Hack The Box (HTB) [3]: A gamified cybersecurity platform with skill improvement, certification, and ability assessment features. The platform content provides both basic CTF challenges, as well as more complex exercises relying on virtual machines. The following training categories are especially relevant from an attack training perspective: Crypto, Hardware, Mobile, Pwn, Recon, Web (see Sect. 10.​2.​2.​1 for details).W3Challs [18]: An online CTF platform that hosts a large number of challenges that cover various areas of hacking, and which are mostly related to offensive hacking. A very useful feature of W3Challs is a fine-grained challenge tagging mechanism that makes it possible to filter challenges based on difficulty level, challenge category, but also the actual type of skills required to solve a given challenge, such as Android, ARM, Java, PHP, and Python. The following training categories are the most related to attack training: Crypto, Misc, Pwn, Web (see Sect. 10.​2.​1.​6 for details).


4.4 DiscussionIn what follows, we will discuss what are the main advantages of attack training, but also what potential issues are to be expected when conducting such training activities. Since it is important to consider both the trainee and organizer perspectives on these topics, we will examine them independently for each of them.4.4.1 Main AdvantagesAttack training is the most common among the three main forms of cybersecurity training, as demonstrated by the popularity of Capture The Flag (CTF) platforms. Thus, in a CTF competition, most of the challenges basically ask trainees to use different offensive techniques to retrieve flags from a target system (for a more detailed discussion of CTF platforms, see Chap. 10).4.4.1.1 Trainee PerspectiveTo understand the reasons for the popularity of attack training, we will first examine its positive aspects from a trainee perspective.Entertainment Value We consider that the entertaining nature of attack training is one of its main attractions. For example, being able to successfully conduct an attack is immediately rewarding from a trainee perspective. Gamification features used by training platforms, such as scoreboards and badges, further increase the entertainment value of attack training, as these features make it possible to quantify trainee progress in an easy-to-understand manner.Psychological Appeal Due to the way in which hacking is represented in popular culture, such as movies, hackers have an aura of mystery and coolness that we believe to be very appealing, especially for the younger trainees. For them, it can be stated that the idea of becoming a successful hacker represents a strong psychological motivation to participate in attack training activities. Moreover, the profession of ethical hacker or pentester makes it possible to use offensive skills for non-malicious goals, hence it is a socially sanctioned way of putting into practice such skills.Financial Rewards Many companies nowadays have bug bounty programs that provide not only public recognition, but also financial compensation to anyone who reports bugs in their products, especially in connection with security vulnerabilities. Consequently, becoming a successful ethical hacker can also have financial benefits.While bounties usually start from amounts of hundreds of dollars, large companies have committed to provide rewards in excess of one million U.S. dollars for certain high-risk vulnerabilities. For example, Apple will provide such high rewards for demonstrating a network attack without user interaction that makes possible zero-click kernel code execution with persistence.6
Easy to Get Started Since there are presently many opportunities for basic attack training, for instance, by using online CTF platforms, the barrier to entry is relatively low for this form of training. Moreover, learning individual attack techniques is not particularly difficult, especially for the fundamental skills. Therefore, many trainees start with attack training, compared to other forms of cybersecurity training, due to its wider availability, and the initially straightforward learning experience.
4.4.1.2 Organizer PerspectiveLet us review now what makes coordinating attack training activities attractive from an organizer perspective.Strong Demand Given all the reasons discussed above, it is clear that attack training has a great appeal with trainees. It is natural, therefore, that organizers are willing to meet this demand by organizing such activities. Having a strong demand means that both for the free training activities, and also for the paid one, there will always be participants willing to take part. Many training companies actually provide a free tier for attracting initial customers, some of whom will also use the paid tiers for additional benefits, such as more targeted learning resources or certifications.Easy Environment Setup Attack training is relatively easy to organize in terms of set-up overhead, especially when compared to defense training. As mentioned in Sect. 4.1.1, for many aspects of attack training there is no need to set up a training environment, or only basic environments are required, such as websites with vulnerabilities that the trainees try to exploit. Even for the more realistic training environments, while the setup procedure can be more complex, the environments are static. This means that once they are up and running, nothing else needs to be done, and a simple reset is enough to bring them back to the initial state before the start of a new training session.Other features used in attack training, such as scoring, are also relatively easy to implement by using the flag concept from CTFs to determine whether a trainee was able to solve a challenge or not. In conclusion, the overall low organization overhead constitutes another aspect that makes attack training a preferred form of cybersecurity training from an organizer perspective too.

4.4.2 Potential IssuesDespite the many arguments in favor of attack training that we discussed so far, this form of training can also lead to several potential issues. In what follows, we discuss those issues by using again the two perspectives of trainees and organizers.4.4.2.1 Trainee PerspectiveWe consider that the issues that attack training can cause for trainees come mainly from a psychological perspective, as explained next.Information Overload Even though learning individual offensive skills may not be very difficult when considering each skill in itself, becoming proficient at hacking requires trainees to master a large number of technical skills from a variety of areas, as demonstrated by the many challenge categories of CTF platforms. Therefore, as the training progresses, a state of information overload can occur, as some of the trainees may reach their limits when trying to learn more and more attack skills.As a way to cope with this issue, many trainees begin to specialize in certain areas they are more successful or feel more comfortable working in. This is the reason why in many CTF competitions participation is done as teams, with each team member having a certain area of expertise.High Competitiveness Attack training, especially when it is done in public forms, such as CTFs, is highly competitive. Accordingly, the training activity in itself can become quite stressful, which associated with the information overload issue mentioned above can lead to a burnout of the trainees.Occasionally, the stress can also lead to the use of bad manners and even forms of abuse and harassment that may discourage other participants from attending the training. While CTFs typically have policies against this type of harmful conduct, one solution is to organize competitions that target certain groups, such as CTFs for women, with the goal of minimizing the potential for abuse.
4.4.2.2 Organizer PerspectiveNext we will review several potential issues that attack training organizers may be faced with, and some possible solutions for these issues.Ethical Issues Attack training teaches trainees how to conduct offensive actions that are intrinsically dangerous. As a consequence, it is important that organizations understand the risks associated with such training activities and find ways to mitigate them in order to avoid unwanted consequences.For online settings, this can be achieved by withholding high-risk content from free tiers of the training platforms and verifying the identity of (and possibly vetoing) the participants in the paid tiers. Another solution, which can be used, for example, when training is conducted in educational institutions, is to conduct interviews with the candidates to evaluate their motivations and psychological fitness before accepting them into a training program. In some cases, one can imagine even running background checks on the candidates, similar to security clearance procedures.Training Environment Isolation The training environments used in cybersecurity training can also lead to several issues if they are not correctly isolated from production networks and the Internet. A lack of isolation may make it possible for trainees, either by mistake or on purpose, to use the attack tools in the training environment on external systems. In addition to potentially serious security consequences to the hosts on the production networks and/or Internet, this also decreases the credibility of the training organizers, both at personal and institutional levels.Isolation is important from another point of view as well, since for attack training activities the training environment typically contains security vulnerabilities. In case the environment is not isolated from external networks, it could also be subjected to attacks from the outside. This would at a minimum affect the quality of the training, but it could also enable the attackers to use the training environment as a steppingstone to penetrate the internal network of the hosting organization.Content Creation Issues Despite the fact that content for individual training exercises is not very difficult to create, attack training requires a large amount of practice. Therefore, content creation can become a problem, as overall it requires a large amount of human effort, as well as deep knowledge of cybersecurity. Several possible solutions can be envisaged. The simplest one would be to have training ecosystems that would allow sharing of training content created by different parties. However, this solution is not feasible from a commercial perspective, since training organizations usually try to differentiate from each other, and specific content can become one of such differentiating factors.A very modern alternative would be to employ automatic content generation techniques, for example, by using machine learning, as it has been done already in the context of cybersecurity awareness training [19]. We envisage that the rapid progress of Large Language Models (LLMs), which are now able to generate not only natural language text, but also programming language code, will make it possible in the near future to have them also generate attack training content. Such as system could, for instance, use an entry from the CVE or NVD vulnerability databases to generate the corresponding attack training content that asks the trainees to exploit that particular vulnerability.


References1.Cybrary. Penetration testing and ethical hacking. https://​www.​cybrary.​it/​course/​ethical-hacking. Accessed 1 July 2024
2.Fauzi F. CTF playbook. https://​fareedfauzi.​gitbook.​io/​ctf-playbook. Accessed 1 July 2024
3.Hack The Box. Hack The Box website. https://​www.​hackthebox.​com/​. Accessed 1 July 2024
4.Hemberg E, Turner MJ, Rutar N, O’Reilly UM (2024) Enhancements to threat, vulnerability, and mitigation knowledge for cyber analytics, hunting, and simulations. Digital Threats 5(1):
