# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2 - The total number of criteria for v1.0 of the capability assessment tool is 58.Each assessment criterion has an identifier and a description that summarizes its scope, such as criterion “TD-1: Types of training supported in training definitions” defined in regard to training definitions, which is a type of assessment related to training content representation capabilities. A set of choices follow the description, which is ordered based on the platform capability level, from the least to the most capable (see the example in Fig. 13.1).For each choice, the capability level associated to it is indicated. Level 1 represents the minimal requirement for having a certain functionality. Level 3 is the maximum capability level defined in the current version of the tool, although for some criteria only choices up to Level 2 are provided. For some choices, alternatives that are associated to the same capability level exist if they are equivalent in terms of complexity. As a special case, the Level 0 capability is to be assigned if a particular functionality is missing completely from a training platform.For most assessment criteria, the explanation of the conditions that must be met to reach that capability level is given as plain text. However, additional information is provided for several criteria, such as images of network topologies, or even equations to be used to decide specific performance-related capabilities. Such supplementary information is an important feature of that capability assessment tool that makes it easy to assess the correct level for those criteria.The various characteristics of the capability assessment methodology that we discussed so far enable training platform stakeholders to assess the capabilities of training platform in an objective manner, a task that is further facilitated by the practical assessment details that are provided.We note that overall design of the capability assessment tool that we introduced was inspired by the SIM3 Self Assessment Tool [7], which is an online tool for assessments in connection with the Security Incident Management Maturity Model (SIM3) developed by the Open CSIRT Foundation. The model defines a set of maturity parameters for computer security incident response teams (CSIRTs), which in SIM3 v2 are divided into four categories. The provided tool makes it possible to conduct the assessment online and visualize the maturity level of a CSIRT in the form of a radar chart.
Security Relevance Score: 3
Word Count: 437
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

The total number of criteria for v1.0 of the capability assessment tool is 58.Each assessment criterion has an identifier and a description that summarizes its scope, such as criterion “TD-1: Types of training supported in training definitions” defined in regard to training definitions, which is a type of assessment related to training content representation capabilities. A set of choices follow the description, which is ordered based on the platform capability level, from the least to the most capable (see the example in Fig. 13.1).For each choice, the capability level associated to it is indicated. Level 1 represents the minimal requirement for having a certain functionality. Level 3 is the maximum capability level defined in the current version of the tool, although for some criteria only choices up to Level 2 are provided. For some choices, alternatives that are associated to the same capability level exist if they are equivalent in terms of complexity. As a special case, the Level 0 capability is to be assigned if a particular functionality is missing completely from a training platform.For most assessment criteria, the explanation of the conditions that must be met to reach that capability level is given as plain text. However, additional information is provided for several criteria, such as images of network topologies, or even equations to be used to decide specific performance-related capabilities. Such supplementary information is an important feature of that capability assessment tool that makes it easy to assess the correct level for those criteria.The various characteristics of the capability assessment methodology that we discussed so far enable training platform stakeholders to assess the capabilities of training platform in an objective manner, a task that is further facilitated by the practical assessment details that are provided.We note that overall design of the capability assessment tool that we introduced was inspired by the SIM3 Self Assessment Tool [7], which is an online tool for assessments in connection with the Security Incident Management Maturity Model (SIM3) developed by the Open CSIRT Foundation. The model defines a set of maturity parameters for computer security incident response teams (CSIRTs), which in SIM3 v2 are divided into four categories. The provided tool makes it possible to conduct the assessment online and visualize the maturity level of a CSIRT in the form of a radar chart.
13.2.2 Capability Assessment CriteriaThe capability assessment methodology groups the evaluation of the characteristics and features of cybersecurity training platforms into three categories of assessment criteria, which we will discuss below in detail:Training content representation (training definition and sandbox definition).Network environment management.Training activity facilitation.
An overview of the capability assessment criteria is shown in Table 13.
