# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 7 - On the right, a text box provides a detailed explanation of cryptography, its origins, and its applications in secure communication and information security. The interface includes a search bar at the top for inputting keywords.Fig. 8.3Learn concepts interface in CyATP used for detailed concept understanding
In addition to the above, a search box is available at the top of the interface, making it possible for trainees to find out the definition and relationships for any concept that may be interested in via text search (provided that the search matches at least partially any concept registered in the training content database). This mechanism further adds to the freedom of exploration provided by CyATP.
Security Relevance Score: 7
Word Count: 873
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

On the right, a text box provides a detailed explanation of cryptography, its origins, and its applications in secure communication and information security. The interface includes a search bar at the top for inputting keywords.Fig. 8.3Learn concepts interface in CyATP used for detailed concept understanding
In addition to the above, a search box is available at the top of the interface, making it possible for trainees to find out the definition and relationships for any concept that may be interested in via text search (provided that the search matches at least partially any concept registered in the training content database). This mechanism further adds to the freedom of exploration provided by CyATP.

8.3.3 Content GenerationCreating cybersecurity awareness training content is a tedious task that requires educators to spend a long time creating the necessary educational content, quiz questions, etc. Moreover, since the cybersecurity landscape evolves rapidly, updating the training content requires that extra time is spent to add new content related to the new issues that must be covered, and possibly to remove any unneeded old content. CyATP addresses these issues in two ways:Creating the training content automatically by leveraging the DBpedia and Wikipedia public knowledge bases.Generating the corresponding quiz content as well automatically by using Natural Language Generation (NLG) techniques.
8.3.3.1 Training Content GenerationFor training content creation, the DBpedia knowledge base [5] is queried based on the top-level concept (for example, “Computer security”), and all the relationships between that concept and the related concepts are used to retrieve the associated knowledge graph. In addition, definitions for the concepts are also retrieved automatically from Wikipedia [22]; see [16] for details on the entire procedure.Using this method, at the time of development, a total of about 2500 cybersecurity concepts and concept definitions were automatically imported into the training database of CyATP. By querying DBpedia at regular intervals, educators can effortlessly update the entire training content, thus benefiting implicitly of any changes in the DBpedia and Wikipedia knowledge bases.
8.3.3.2 Quiz Content GenerationIn regard to the quiz content, NLG techniques were used to automatically generate based on the training content a set of pairs of cloze questions1 and answers that are presented in the quiz section of the CyATP user interface. In particular, the SMOTE method was used to train a Bernoulli Naive Bayes model after performing isotonic calibration; see [24] for a detailed description of the approach.An example of a generated quiz question is shown in Fig. 8.4, along with the four possible answers that were selected, made of the correct answer and three related ones. The screenshot is part of the Take Quiz component of the CyATP interface, and it also includes a countdown timer for answering the question, the number of remaining questions, and the current score. Trainees can also provide feedback about the question via the Question Evaluation button.A quiz interface with a question about security. The question asks for the term describing the selective restriction of access to a place or resource. Four answer options are provided: "Access control," "Access restriction," "Identification," and "Security policy." A timer shows 15 seconds remaining. The interface indicates the user is on question 7 of 10, with a current score of 20.Fig. 8.4Example quiz question automatically generated by CyATP using NLG techniques
The current version of CyTAP includes a total of 278 cloze questions that were generated using the above method. These questions are presented to learners in the form of a timed quiz that serves as a way for them to verify their proficiency level. Each time a quiz is taken, 10 questions are randomly selected from the quiz question database for that purpose.We note that the random question selection in CyATP provides variation in terms of learning experience but does not necessarily support the learning process. For this purpose, more advanced techniques should be used, such as the adaptive learning approach proposed in [16] that prioritizes new content and content that has not yet been learned correctly when selecting the quiz questions.In addition to being used as quiz questions, the generated cloze questions were also processed for inclusion in CyATP as elements of crossword puzzles. There are currently 28 clues available that make up a total of 10 crossword puzzles, as it will be discussed next.

8.3.4 Crossword Puzzle QuizThe simple quiz that was discussed above is a very basic form of gamification, as the countdown timer and current score bring a certain excitement to the learning experience of the trainees. However, CyATP also provides a more advanced form of gamification meant to make the learning experience even more enjoyable via the use of crossword puzzle mechanics.The crossword puzzle component of the user interface displays a crossword puzzle in the left-hand side. Next to it are shown the clues for the puzzle, displayed separately for the across and down directions. The clues consist of cloze questions that represent the definitions of cybersecurity-related concepts. Trainees must input the answer (missing word) of the cloze questions into the crossword puzzle area. Since this requires them to actually type the answer, it is a more challenging process than the simple answer selection from a list of possible choices for the regular quiz mentioned earlier.An example of a generated crossword puzzle is shown in Fig. 8.
