# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - More details about each training form will be provided in Chaps. 4 through 6.The diagram illustrates the relationship between real-world incidents and cybersecurity training. On the left, it shows a sequence starting with "Exploitable Vulnerability," leading to "Attack Consequences," and ending with "Vulnerability Patching." Arrows connect these to corresponding cybersecurity training activities on the right: "Reproduce Exploit" links to "Attack Training," "Analyze Incident" to "Forensics Training," and "Design Protection" to "Defense Training." An overarching arrow labeled "Personnel Readiness" connects the two sections, emphasizing the integration of real-world experiences into training for improved readiness.Fig. 3.1Relationship between real-world cybersecurity incident phases and forms of training depending on the purpose of the training activity
Security Relevance Score: 13
Word Count: 1189
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

More details about each training form will be provided in Chaps. 4 through 6.The diagram illustrates the relationship between real-world incidents and cybersecurity training. On the left, it shows a sequence starting with "Exploitable Vulnerability," leading to "Attack Consequences," and ending with "Vulnerability Patching." Arrows connect these to corresponding cybersecurity training activities on the right: "Reproduce Exploit" links to "Attack Training," "Analyze Incident" to "Forensics Training," and "Design Protection" to "Defense Training." An overarching arrow labeled "Personnel Readiness" connects the two sections, emphasizing the integration of real-world experiences into training for improved readiness.Fig. 3.1Relationship between real-world cybersecurity incident phases and forms of training depending on the purpose of the training activity

3.1.2 Training ApproachAnother perspective on technical cybersecurity training can be had by considering what is the particular approach used for the associated hands-on activities. The target trainee skills are perhaps the most important guiding factors when designing a technical cybersecurity training activity. Consequently, we will use the skill perspective to discuss several aspects that we consider to be the defining elements of every technical cybersecurity training approach, as follows:Content type: The kind of content used during the training.Environment type: The kind of environment used during the training.Training cost: The cost of organizing and providing the training.
In what follows, we will first examine the range of skills related to cybersecurity. Then, we will analyze the aforementioned aspects, and their influence on the approaches used in cybersecurity training activities contingent upon the skills that those activities are targeting.3.1.2.1 Cybersecurity SkillsThe type of training approach that is used in a cybersecurity training activity is very much related to the kind of skills a given training program aims to develop in the trainees. Therefore, let us consider the three types of cybersecurity skills (for a more detailed discussion of cybersecurity skills, see Sect. 3.2):Individual skills: Standalone cybersecurity techniques.Team skills: Abilities needed to become part of an effective cybersecurity team.CSIRT skills: Advanced team skills needed for the adequate operation of a Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT).Individual Skills Being able to solve security issues requires first of all mastering a series of fundamental standalone cybersecurity techniques. When individual skills are targeted, then the goal of the training activity is to teach trainees how to conduct basic cybersecurity activities, such as network sniffing, vulnerability scanning, and password cracking.Team Skills The handling of cybersecurity incidents is often done in teams, because the wide area of potential security issues means that cybersecurity professionals have most of the expertise in specific areas, such as web application development and firewalls; and system and network administration.Since team members work together on a common problem, in addition to basic technical skills, they must also be able to communicate about the issues in their specific area, and to cooperate in order to solve that common problem. Therefore, soft skills, such as communication and cooperation, are needed in order to build an effective cybersecurity team.CSIRT Skills A CSIRT is a group of experts put together in a large organization with the purpose of handling cybersecurity incidents in a comprehensive and holistic manner. Members of a CSIRT must, therefore, be able take part in more advanced activities, as needed in order to solve the incident. This includes, for example, the deployment of external resources for solving the issues (e.g., via the outsourcing of aspects that cannot be handled within the organization), dealing with the possibility of attack escalations activities that can worsen the consequences of the attack, managing issues related to the supply chain for that particular organization, etc.Consequently, in order to prepare trainees to become part of a CSIRT, the training activity must allow them to practice and develop a wide range of advanced team skills, as those mentioned above. Only in this manner, it becomes possible to get them ready to be effective CSIRT members that are able to handle the specific tasks that are required in this context.
3.1.2.2 Content TypeWhen targeting individual skills, then training activities that are based on simple tasks, such answering questions or solving basic problems, are most of the time sufficient. For example, the trainees may be asked to determine information about computers (e.g., IP address), to analyze network packet traces, to determine the vulnerabilities of a host, etc.However, for team skill training more complex and realistic scenarios are required, that ask trainees with different backgrounds (or different roles in the training scenario) to solve a problem together.Finally, when targeting CSIRT skills, training activities should be based on continuous scenarios in which team members are faced with conditions that evolve continuously and to which they have to react by communicating with staff that is not part of the team (e.g., reporting the incident to organization leaders, outsourcing forensics to external parties, etc.). This type of scenario represents the most realistic type of training activity, that ensures participants will be able to handle security incidents in the real world.
3.1.2.3 Environment TypeThe other important characteristic of a training activity is the type of environment used therein. The most basic type of training environment for cybersecurity purposes is a desktop computer, on which the trainees conduct all their training. Because of its simplicity, this is one of the most often used types of training environment for individual skills.On the other hand, by utilizing virtualization technologies, it is possible to construct training environments that are built of multiple Virtual Machines (VMs). In addition, by using more and more realistic settings for the VMs and the network topology they form, it is possible to reproduce in detail actual computer and network topology settings. Such elaborate training environments make it possible to train more advanced skills in more complex scenarios. As the realism of the training environment increases, so does the effectiveness of the training, as the trainees are placed in situations similar to real-world incidents; hence, the skills they develop will be readily applicable in real life.
3.1.2.4 Training CostWhile not an intrinsic characteristic of a training activity, it is obvious that increasing the complexity of the training environment leads to cost increases, as equipment and environment setup costs become larger. This is the reason why most training activities are conducted on one computer, typically provided by the trainees, as this is the least expensive solution.For more advanced forms of training, which are conducted in more complex environments, the costs naturally increase, thus creating a barrier to entry for participants. As a side comment, training environment setup currently requires advanced security knowledge and a significant amount of manual configuration; this leads to the fact that for really complex training environments the setup cost may actually exceed the equipment cost, especially in the long term.
3.1.2.5 Training Approach AnalysisThere is a strong relationship between the target skills of a training activity, and the various training aspects and design elements that need to be incorporated into it in terms of training scenarios and environment types, and these choices affect the training cost. This relationship is summarized in Fig. 3.2."The image is a diagram illustrating the progression of training elements across four categories: Skills, Content, Environment, and Cost. Each category is represented by a horizontal arrow indicating increasing complexity or investment.
