# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - The packages are named accordingly, such as kali-tools-identify, kali-tools-protect, kali-tools-detect, kali-tools-respond, kali-tools-recover, and include a total of around 40 utilities. In what follows, we will introduce some representative examples of defense training tools that illustrate the capabilities trainees can expect from such utilities.6.3.3.1 iptablesiptables is a utility program for configuring filter rules of the Linux kernel firewall, and is part of the netfilter.org project [13]. We use here the mentioned utility name generically, but in practice the iptables command is used only in relation with IPv4 traffic, whereas other commands, such as ip6tables, arptables and ebtables, are used in relation with IPv6, ARP and Ethernet traffic, respectively. The same project also develops a successor for iptables, named nftables, which provides additional scalability and flexibility.The key architecture element of iptables are the chains of rules that are to be applied to network traffic packets. Using the chains makes it possible to design a wide variety of actions. While the chains are mainly used to filter traffic, other uses are possible, such as Network Address Translation (NAT), and even modifications of the IP header of the packets. The five chains of rules available in iptables are the following:PREROUTING: Chain where packets enter before a routing decision is made.INPUT: Chain for packets that are to be delivered locally.FORWARD: Chain for packets that are to be routed.OUTPUT: Chain for packets sent from the local host.POSTROUTING: Chain where packets enter after a routing decision was made.
Although the actual firewall utility used and its features depend on the operating system of a computer host, learning about iptables, and how it can be used to configure the Linux firewall, represents a very good introduction for trainees to the general concept of firewalls. Moreover, the fact that iptables configurations can be saved into and loaded from files makes it possible to reuse configurations for multiple hosts, which is another powerful feature of this utility.
Security Relevance Score: 16
Word Count: 662
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

The packages are named accordingly, such as kali-tools-identify, kali-tools-protect, kali-tools-detect, kali-tools-respond, kali-tools-recover, and include a total of around 40 utilities. In what follows, we will introduce some representative examples of defense training tools that illustrate the capabilities trainees can expect from such utilities.6.3.3.1 iptablesiptables is a utility program for configuring filter rules of the Linux kernel firewall, and is part of the netfilter.org project [13]. We use here the mentioned utility name generically, but in practice the iptables command is used only in relation with IPv4 traffic, whereas other commands, such as ip6tables, arptables and ebtables, are used in relation with IPv6, ARP and Ethernet traffic, respectively. The same project also develops a successor for iptables, named nftables, which provides additional scalability and flexibility.The key architecture element of iptables are the chains of rules that are to be applied to network traffic packets. Using the chains makes it possible to design a wide variety of actions. While the chains are mainly used to filter traffic, other uses are possible, such as Network Address Translation (NAT), and even modifications of the IP header of the packets. The five chains of rules available in iptables are the following:PREROUTING: Chain where packets enter before a routing decision is made.INPUT: Chain for packets that are to be delivered locally.FORWARD: Chain for packets that are to be routed.OUTPUT: Chain for packets sent from the local host.POSTROUTING: Chain where packets enter after a routing decision was made.
Although the actual firewall utility used and its features depend on the operating system of a computer host, learning about iptables, and how it can be used to configure the Linux firewall, represents a very good introduction for trainees to the general concept of firewalls. Moreover, the fact that iptables configurations can be saved into and loaded from files makes it possible to reuse configurations for multiple hosts, which is another powerful feature of this utility.
6.3.3.2 Greenbone OpenVASGreenbone OpenVAS is a vulnerability scanning and management utility that is currently being developed by the company Greenbone AG [3]. OpenVAS has many features, including unauthenticated and authenticated scanning, support for various internet and industrial protocols, efficient large-scale scanning capabilities, as well as a powerful custom language that can be used to implement vulnerability tests.The scanning functionality of OpenVAS is supported by feeds that are updated daily with information on how to detect new vulnerabilities. It is said that more than 160,000 vulnerability tests are currently available by means of these feeds.Vulnerability scanning is an essential component of the risk assessment process, since it makes it possible to understand what possible attack points exist in an network system. Consequently, trainees should learn how to use such scanning tools as part of the risk assessment process.
6.3.3.3 SnortSnort is an open-source network Intrusion Detection System (IDS) and Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) that is currently being developed by Cisco [1]. To achieve the IDS/IPS functionality, Snort relies on a series of rules that characterize malicious network activity. When a match is found against those rules, Snort generates an alert regarding the possible detected intrusion. In addition to the detection capabilities, Snort also can be used to stop the malicious network traffic packets, thus enabling the prevention functionality.The rules available in Snort are powerful enough to allow the utility to perform complex protocol analysis, as well as content searching and matching. Moreover, a machine learning-based detection engine for Snort, named SnortML, has been released in 2024.Snort can also be used for packet sniffing, i.e., to display network traffic, and for packet logging, that is, to save network packets into a file. This specific functionality makes it possible to use Snort for the debugging of network applications. Consequently, Snort is a very powerful tool in the context of defense training, and mastering it is an essential need for trainees.We note that several other powerful open-source tools with similar functionality exist, such as the network analysis and threat detection software Suricata1 or the network security monitoring tool Zeek
