# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - 6.2.2.5 RespondIn case a cybersecurity incident was actually detected, various actions must be taken to mitigate it. This is a very important phase of the defense methodology, since it is critical in ensuring that the resulting damage is minimized. The most important aspects that trainees must consider in this context are as follows:How to manage competently the response actions with regard to the detected cybersecurity incidents?How to leverage incident analysis to ensure an effective response, as well as to support the forensics and recovery activities?How to notify the relevant stakeholders, and how to publicly share information about the incident?How to prevent incident escalation via containment techniques, and how to mitigate incident effects?
Incident containment and mitigation techniques are most important from an operational perspective, and trainees should make sure to master the relevant technical skills that allow them to carry out these tasks. A high proficiency in this area is needed because these tasks must be completed not only effectively, but also in a timely manner, given the critical need to respond to incidents as soon as possible.
Security Relevance Score: 8
Word Count: 1483
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

6.2.2.5 RespondIn case a cybersecurity incident was actually detected, various actions must be taken to mitigate it. This is a very important phase of the defense methodology, since it is critical in ensuring that the resulting damage is minimized. The most important aspects that trainees must consider in this context are as follows:How to manage competently the response actions with regard to the detected cybersecurity incidents?How to leverage incident analysis to ensure an effective response, as well as to support the forensics and recovery activities?How to notify the relevant stakeholders, and how to publicly share information about the incident?How to prevent incident escalation via containment techniques, and how to mitigate incident effects?
Incident containment and mitigation techniques are most important from an operational perspective, and trainees should make sure to master the relevant technical skills that allow them to carry out these tasks. A high proficiency in this area is needed because these tasks must be completed not only effectively, but also in a timely manner, given the critical need to respond to incidents as soon as possible.
6.2.2.6 RecoverLast but not least, after a cybersecurity incident takes place, all the organization assets and operations that were affected by it must be restored. From an organization perspective this is a very important phase as well, as it allows the organization to resume its normal operation. Typical tasks in this context include:How to perform the restoration activities according to the incident recovery plan to ensure that the systems and services affected by the cybersecurity incident are again operational?How to communicate and coordinate with all the related internal and external parties (stakeholders, the general public, etc.) regarding the recovery activities?
While the restoration activities themselves are technical in nature and depend significantly on the nature of the systems and services in an organization, the communication and coordination activities require trainees to make use of communication skills in order to be able to successfully accomplish such tasks.


6.3 Related InformationDefense training is a type of training activity that requires participants to master a wide variety of knowledge and skills. In what follows, we will review several resources that we consider particularly helpful in this context, first in terms of additional information sources, such as knowledge bases and defense methodology guidelines. Following that, we will discuss several tools that trainees can use during defense training, and some examples of defense training platforms.6.3.1 Defense Knowledge BasesThere are a number of sources of knowledge that trainees can leverage in order to gain a deeper insight into how cybersecurity defense is to be conducted. In what follows, we will review the most important of them to illustrate what type of information is readily available for defense training purposes.6.3.1.1 D3FENDD3FEND is a knowledge graph of cybersecurity countermeasures that is intended as a basis for the design and enactment of defense operations [8]. Specifically, D3FEND includes the following information:Defense tactics used to classify possible defensive methods.Defense technique categories corresponding to each defense tactic.Defense techniques within each defense technique category.Additional information for each defense technique, including relationships with various digital artifacts, mapping to ATT&CK techniques (see Sect. 4.​3.​1.​1), references to related documents, etc.
In what follows, we will illustrate the utilization of the D3FEND knowledge graph from a defense training perspective. For the examples provided below we will rely on D3FEND v0.15 that was released in April 2024.Tactics At the top-level of D3FEND are situated the defense tactics, each of them representing one aspect of the defense methodology that trainees must be aware of. Differently from ATT&CK, D3FEND tactics are not assigned an identifier; however, definitions of their scope are provided for each tactic.There are currently seven tactics specified in the knowledge graph, which are used to categorize a total of about 200 defense techniques. In Table 6.2 we summarize the D3FEND tactics by showing the name of each tactic, its definition, as well as the number of techniques that it includes.Technique Categories D3FEND has a hierarchical structure, and at the second level are included defense technique categories, which can be considered as a sort of abstract defense technique. Technique categories have associated an identifier, a definition, and a graph of relationships with regard to digital artifacts for that category, which is an important source of information.For instance, the Isolate tactic includes the technique categories shown in Table 6.3, for which we mention their corresponding definitions and technique count. If we consider the Network Isolation (D3-NI) technique category as an example, D3FEND describes for it the types of traffic that are blocked (e.g., DNS network traffic) or filtered (e.g., email) using this technique category, and also what this technique category can be used to isolate (e.g., intranet network).Table 6.3Overview of the technique categories for the Isolate tactic in the D3FEND knowledge graphNameCategory definitionCountExecution IsolationExecution isolation techniques prevent application processes from accessing non-essential system resources, such as memory, devices, or files7Network IsolationNetwork isolation techniques prevent network hosts from accessing non-essential system network resources14
From a defense training perspective, the main role of categories is to help trainees conceptualize the defense techniques at a high abstraction level in preparation for learning about the practical techniques we will discuss next.Techniques Each technique category in D3FEND includes a number of techniques that are more practical from an operation point of view. These techniques as well have associated an identifier, a definition, and a graph of digital artifact relationships. For some of the techniques, specific sub-techniques are also defined that represent particular cases of application of a given technique.As an example, in Table 6.4 we summarize the techniques and sub-techniques in the Network Isolation (D3-NI) category. The symbol ‘–’ is used as prefix to identify those sub-techniques that are subclasses of a given technique. For instance, the Network Traffic Filtering technique in the lower part of the table includes three sub-techniques, which specify whether the filtering is done in the inbound or outbound directions, and whether the filtered traffic type is email.Table 6.4Overview of the techniques and sub-techniques for the Network Isolation category in the D3FEND knowledge graphNameCategory definitionBroadcast Domain IsolationBroadcast isolation restricts the number of computers a host can contact on their LANDNS AllowlistingPermitting only approved domains and their subdomains to be resolvedDNS DenylistingBlocking DNS network traffic based on criteria such as IP address, domain name, or DNS query type– Forward Resolution Domain DenylistingBlocking a lookup based on the query’s domain name value– Reverse Resolution Domain DenylistingBlocking a reverse DNS lookup’s answer’s domain name value– Hierarchical Domain DenylistingBlocking the resolution of any subdomain of a specified domain name– Homoglyph DenylistingBlocking DNS queries that are deceptively similar to legitimate domain names– Forward Resolution IP DenylistingBlocking a DNS lookup’s answer’s IP address value– Reverse Resolution IP DenylistingBlocking a reverse lookup based on the query’s IP address valueEncrypted TunnelsEncrypted encapsulation of routable network trafficNetwork Traffic FilteringRestricting network traffic originating from any location– Inbound Traffic FilteringRestricting network traffic originating from untrusted networks destined toward a private host or enclave– Email FilteringFiltering incoming email traffic based on specific criteria– Outbound Traffic FilteringRestricting network traffic originating from a private host or enclave destined toward untrusted networks
From a practical perspective, the sub-techniques in the D3FEND knowledge graph are the most relevant for defense training. This is because, in addition to the details mentioned above, other useful information is included for them, such as how each sub-technique works, various considerations about their use, as well as tools that can be used to put them into practice.Nevertheless, we consider that the level of technical detail is lower compared to that available in the ATT&CK knowledge base. Hopefully, this will improve as new versions of D3FEND are released. The list of ATT&CK techniques related to a D3FEND technique is also an experimental feature that, while already useful to some extent, is expected to improve as the knowledge graph grows.
6.3.1.2 EngageAnother framework developed by MITRE is Engage [9]. Its goal is to support adversary engagement operations, which represent a modern cyber defense methodology. During such operations, an organization provides deceptive artifacts and systems with the goal of exposing adversaries in the organization network, affecting their ability to operate, and gathering information about their Tactics, Techniques and Procedures (TTPs). Also known as cyber denial or cyber deception, this type of adversary engagement operations have three phases: 1.Prepare: Determine all the details regarding the engagement, such as operational objective, expected adversary reactions, success criteria, etc. 2.Operate: Execute the actual engagement operation. 3.Understand: Process the data into actionable intelligence, analyze the points of success and failure, etc. 
In what follows we will focus on the most technical phase, namely Operate, which includes the actual engagement actions, i.e., those cyber denial and deception activities used to make progress toward the engagement objectives.Goals At the top level of each phase in the Engage framework are situated the goals, which represent the objectives of a phase component. In particular, the Operate phase is composed of three goals, as shown in Table 6.
