# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2015 - However, since 2016 CYDER is operated by the National Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT), and the scope and frequency of the activities have been extended. Thus, starting from 2018 all the 47 prefectures in Japan are covered, and more than 100 training events are held each year [6].In addition to the training programs, several endowed chairs were created in Japanese universities to promote cybersecurity education and training activities. One of these endowed chairs was Cyber Range Organization and Design (CROND) that operated at Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (JAIST) from April 2015 to March 2021 with the support of NEC Corporation. The goal of CROND was to advance the field of cybersecurity education and training, especially through conducting research on cyber ranges, the network environments that are typically used for hands-on training activities.As one of the core members of CROND, the author conceived this book as a summary of the knowledge that was created, and the research results that were produced by the endowed chair. Consequently, he hopes it will serve as a helpful guideline for cybersecurity educators and training experts worldwide.
Security Relevance Score: 10
Word Count: 1234
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

However, since 2016 CYDER is operated by the National Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT), and the scope and frequency of the activities have been extended. Thus, starting from 2018 all the 47 prefectures in Japan are covered, and more than 100 training events are held each year [6].In addition to the training programs, several endowed chairs were created in Japanese universities to promote cybersecurity education and training activities. One of these endowed chairs was Cyber Range Organization and Design (CROND) that operated at Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (JAIST) from April 2015 to March 2021 with the support of NEC Corporation. The goal of CROND was to advance the field of cybersecurity education and training, especially through conducting research on cyber ranges, the network environments that are typically used for hands-on training activities.As one of the core members of CROND, the author conceived this book as a summary of the knowledge that was created, and the research results that were produced by the endowed chair. Consequently, he hopes it will serve as a helpful guideline for cybersecurity educators and training experts worldwide.
1.2 Book OutlineThis book provides a comprehensive overview on cybersecurity education and training methodologies. The book uses a combination of theoretical and practical elements in order to address both the abstract and concrete aspects of the discussed concepts.The book is structured into two parts. The main focus of the first part of the book is on technical cybersecurity training approaches. Following a general overview on cybersecurity education and training, technical cybersecurity training and the three types of training activities in this context—attack training, forensics training, and defense training—are discussed in detail. In addition, we present specific issues related to the particular case of IoT security training, which has its unique challenges that must be addressed. Lastly, cybersecurity awareness training, also known as end-user training or IT literacy, is also discussed in order to provide a thorough view on cybersecurity education and training methodologies.The second part of the book describes the main characteristics of cybersecurity training platforms, which are the systems used to conduct the technical cybersecurity training activities. We start by introducing a generic training platform architecture, as well as key elements of the architecture, such as training content and training environments. This is followed by a wide-ranging analysis of actual cybersecurity training platforms, with focus on various CTF1 systems and cyber ranges that are currently being used worldwide. To better illustrate the concepts discussed in the book, a detailed study of an open-source cybersecurity training platform is also included, namely the integrated cybersecurity training framework CyTrONE [2]. Finally, a cybersecurity training platform capability assessment methodology is introduced as a way to make it possible for the organizations that want to deploy or develop training platforms to objectively evaluate them.
1.3 Existing LiteratureThe current literature regarding cybersecurity education and training consists mainly of books that are dedicated to teaching practical low-level cybersecurity skills, such as penetration testing and hacking. One example in this category is Penetration Testing: A Hands-On Introduction to Hacking by Weidman [8], who is a penetration tester and security researcher. Another example is Handbook for CTFers by Nu1L Team [7], which is one of China’s top CTF teams. Yet another example is Network Security Assessment by McNab [4]. And many other similar books can be easily found through a simple online search.While such books are useful from the practical perspective of beginners who want to learn this type of low-level skills, they do not discuss the higher-level principles behind cybersecurity education and training. Therefore, such books lack the information that is required to understand how to organize training activities in an effective manner, and how to develop training content or training platforms in order to meet specific training goals.A more unique perspective is provided in the book Cyber Security Education: Principles and Policies by Austin [1]. This is the closest to our book in terms of subject matter, but its main focus is on cybersecurity education principles seen from a mostly theoretical angle. In contrast, our book also discusses practical aspects related to training, thus providing a more concrete view on the topic, as well as readily applicable information that readers can use to plan and conduct various forms of training activities.In addition, the aforementioned book is a contributed one, that gathers the various perspectives of the contributing authors on cybersecurity education. Consequently, the book fails to provide a unified view on cybersecurity education and training similar to the one we present in this book.
1.4 Key ContributionsBased on the above considerations, we conclude that our book fills an important gap in the current literature by taking a middle-ground approach to discussing cybersecurity education and training. Thus, the book provides enough theoretical background and practical details so that it can be used by readers as a comprehensive guideline that makes it possible to effectively address all the issues related to planning and conducting cybersecurity education and training activities.The key contributions of the present book are summarized below; the corresponding related chapters are also mentioned for reader’s convenience: 1.Provides a thorough view on cybersecurity education and training methodologies and tools, focusing on the technical perspective that covers attack, forensics, and defense training (Chaps. 2 through 6). 2.Introduces other specific types of cybersecurity training, such as IoT security training and non-technical awareness training (Chaps. 7 and 8). 3.Discusses a generic cybersecurity training platform architecture, as well as a set of specific CTF and cyber range platforms (Chaps. 9 through 11). 4.Analyzes in detail a case study of an actual cybersecurity training platform, named CyTrONE, emphasizing its features and applicability for particular training activities (Chap. 12). 5.Describes a cybersecurity training platform capability assessment methodology that makes it possible to objectively evaluate training platforms in view of deployment or development (Chap. 13). 

1.5 Intended AudienceThe intended audience of this book covers the following areas:The main audience is cybersecurity education and training practitioners and professionals, both in the academia and industry, who will gain knowledge about how to organize meaningful cybersecurity training activities, and how to practically conduct those activities.Another category of potential readers are researchers and postgraduate students working in the area of cybersecurity training, who will gain insights about the current state-of-the-art in this field and will be able to build upon the information presented to extend their research and find new research topics.University lecturers and tutors, as well as undergraduate students, will also gain knowledge helping them make better use of the cybersecurity education classes they are tutoring or taking.Last but not least, corporate and academic libraries may decide to purchase this book in order to support the cybersecurity education and training activities of the professionals and students in those organizations.
As for the cybersecurity education and training activities that will be discussed, they are mainly related to work roles that have a strong practical component, such as incident responders, system architects, developers, digital forensics investigators, and penetration testers. However, even if the necessary training for certain work roles, such as legal, policy, and compliance officers, is not directly addressed, many of the issues discussed apply to those roles as well, although additional knowledge is required in those cases, e.g., with regard to laws and regulations.
References1.Austin G (ed) (2020) Cyber security education: principles and policies. Routledge, LondonzbMATH
2.Cyber Range Organisation and Design (CROND). CyTrONE GitHub page. https://​github.​com/​crond-jaist/​cytrone. Accessed 1 July 2024
3.ISC2 (2023) Cybersecurity workforce study
