# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 43 - The scenarios are classified in the Offensive or Defensive category, with 7 and 15 scenarios in each, respectively. Their difficulty level, Beginner, Intermediate, or Advanced, is also specified.An additional training service, named Cyber Ranges, is also available from Immersive Labs. Using Cyber Ranges, organizations can build complex network environments that meet their own specific requirements. By emulating their production networks in a cyber range, organizations are thus able to achieve the most realistic cyber training experience for their teams.Moreover, a series of Labs—training exercises similar to CTF challenges—is also provided, with thousands of readily available exercises in several categories, such as Fundamentals (368 labs), Defensive Cyber (786 labs), Offensive Cyber (676 labs), Application Security (563 labs), Cloud Security (290 labs), and Cyber Threat Intelligence (503 labs). Note that, although this aspect brings the Labs program close to a CTF platform, we included Immersive Labs in this chapter due to the strong weight of cyber range training in its offer.Yet another training program offered by Immersive Labs is Cyber Crisis Simulator, which is a platform for digital tabletop exercises intended for executive management and crisis management teams. The goal of this program is to help participants make better decisions in real situations by providing engaging scenarios that evolve in dynamic manner based on every decision made. A total of 54 scenarios were available at the time of writing, with names such as Phishing Compromise and Network Abduction. Note that, in addition to general cybersecurity, several scenarios focusing on the healthcare and critical infrastructure domains are included. Moreover, scenario customization is also possible, with several templates being provided.
Security Relevance Score: 21
Word Count: 946
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

The scenarios are classified in the Offensive or Defensive category, with 7 and 15 scenarios in each, respectively. Their difficulty level, Beginner, Intermediate, or Advanced, is also specified.An additional training service, named Cyber Ranges, is also available from Immersive Labs. Using Cyber Ranges, organizations can build complex network environments that meet their own specific requirements. By emulating their production networks in a cyber range, organizations are thus able to achieve the most realistic cyber training experience for their teams.Moreover, a series of Labs—training exercises similar to CTF challenges—is also provided, with thousands of readily available exercises in several categories, such as Fundamentals (368 labs), Defensive Cyber (786 labs), Offensive Cyber (676 labs), Application Security (563 labs), Cloud Security (290 labs), and Cyber Threat Intelligence (503 labs). Note that, although this aspect brings the Labs program close to a CTF platform, we included Immersive Labs in this chapter due to the strong weight of cyber range training in its offer.Yet another training program offered by Immersive Labs is Cyber Crisis Simulator, which is a platform for digital tabletop exercises intended for executive management and crisis management teams. The goal of this program is to help participants make better decisions in real situations by providing engaging scenarios that evolve in dynamic manner based on every decision made. A total of 54 scenarios were available at the time of writing, with names such as Phishing Compromise and Network Abduction. Note that, in addition to general cybersecurity, several scenarios focusing on the healthcare and critical infrastructure domains are included. Moreover, scenario customization is also possible, with several templates being provided.
11.2.2.7 JYVSECTEC Cyber RangeJYVSECTEC, short for Jyväskylä Security Technology, is cybersecurity research, development, and training center in Finland that is operated commercially as part of the Institute of Information Technology of JAMK University of Applied Science. The company operates a cyber range that combines virtualization techniques, physical devices, and business-specific systems to create environments tailored to specific training, testing, or research and development needs [26]. The JYVSECTEC cyber range can be used for many purposes, including:Individual training for cybersecurity experts, analysts, and pentesters, as well as in connection with Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR).Cybersecurity training and capability development for organizations and teams, including the assessment of procedures regarding cyber incident response.Evaluation of new cybersecurity solutions before they are deployed in production environments.
These uses are made possible by the various capabilities of the cyber range environment, for which the name Realistic Global Cyber Environment (RGCE) is also used. In particular, RGCE emulates the real internet in a closed and control environment that provides the following services and features:Internet Service Providers (ISPs) with BGP routing and public IP addresses.A realistic name service architecture and hierarchy.An infrastructure for time synchronization and PKI certificates.Virtualized mobile devices and app store.Controlled software repositories for various operating systems.A Tor Onion anonymous communication network infrastructure.General services, such as news sites, social media, and instant messaging.
A key characteristic of RGCE is the support for user and traffic simulation that makes it possible to recreate realistic traffic patterns and service usage [30]. This capability refers to the emulation of two main aspects, as follows:Actor simulation: Human and configuration errors, hackers of different skill levels, insiders and disgruntled employees, nation or state sponsored actors, etc.Attack vector and technique simulation: Various types of DDoS attacks, malware attacks, ransomware attacks, supply chain attacks, APT campaigns, botnets, phishing campaigns, website defacements, etc.

11.2.2.8 Keysight Cyber RangeKeysight Cyber Range is a training platform that provides real-life settings for cybersecurity training activities [29]. The key features of the cyber range are:Comprehensive software platform that provides functionality related to cyber range orchestration, reporting, platform administration, and data export.Set of tools for making the training more realistic, such as traffic generators (i.e., BreakingPoint), Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) tools, web servers, firewalls, and cybersecurity tools and frameworks.Library of predefined training scenarios based on real-world threats, as well as the ability to create customized scenarios either from scratch, or by modifying any of the predefined ones.Support for gamification-based scenarios, either predefined or custom, for gamified training activities such as CTF.Learning content, such as educational and instructional materials, included with each predefined training scenario.
The aforementioned BreakingPoint traffic generator is an optional component of the cyber range solution that constitutes an important differentiating factor in comparison with other cyber ranges. Specifically, BreakingPoint can be used to simulate more than 490 real-world application protocols and recreate over 60,000 cyberattacks and malware threats. Note that BreakingPoint is also available as a standalone product for network security training.In addition to the above, consulting services are provided to support organizations in customizing the training according to their needs, both in terms of the training scenarios and also regarding the tools used during the training. Specific training for tools provided by Keysight is also available.
11.2.2.9 NetWars Cyber RangesSANS Institute makes available a series of cyber ranges with the NetWars label that are intended to address different cybersecurity training needs [43], as follows:Core NetWars: The most comprehensive of the NetWars cyber ranges, this training platform covers topics such as hardware hacking, mobile app analysis, threat hunting, and web application pentesting.Cyber Defense NetWars: A cyber range focused on prevention, analysis, and defense against real-world attack scenarios, such as brute-force and ransomware attacks. Training topics include log and packet analysis, cryptography and steganography, and network security monitoring.DFIR NetWars: A cyber range that targets digital forensics, incident response, threat hunting, and malware analysis skills. Training topics include database analysis, media exploitation, and rapid triage of cyber threats and damages.
The other cyber ranges in the SANS NetWars suite, which have specialized training targets—GRID NetWars, Healthcare NetWars, and ICS NetWars—will be introduced in Sect. 11.
