# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2 - 6.3.4 Defense Training PlatformsThere seem to be a relatively small number of training platforms that are explicitly aimed at defense training. Even a platform such as CyberDefenders3, which defines itself as a “blue team training platform for SOC analysts, threat hunters, security blue teams and DFIR professionals,” seems to be mainly geared toward forensics training. Thus, from the 142 free and pro tier training labs available at the time of writing, 111 of them—that is, almost 80%—are related to forensics (malware analysis, network forensics, endpoint forensics, etc.). Only the remaining 31 labs—that is, 20% of the total number—are related to topics that are actually defense oriented, such as threat intel and threat hunting, and detection engineering.However, even though most publicly available platforms are generally targeted at attack training, several of them allow attack-defend type of exercises. This makes it possible for trainees to also practice their defense skills, as illustrated in the following two examples of such platforms:TryHackMe [14]: A browser-based gamified cybersecurity training platform that provides learning content for various skill level participants. The most important feature from a defense training perspective is the support for attack-defend competitions in the “king of the hill” format. In this case, participants must prevent other players from compromising a target machine, for example, by patching its vulnerabilities. Furthermore, the amount of points awarded to other players can be minimized by evicting them from that machine (see Sect. 10.​2.​2.​2 for details).Facebook CTF [2]: An open-source CTF platform developed by Facebook [2] that can be used to organize competitions with hundreds of participants. The attack-defend type of challenge, named Bases, is also a “king of the hill” type of game. Similarly to TryHackMe, participants must both harden the bases to prevent their capture, and also attempt to evict other players to limit the number of points awarded to them (see Sect. 10.​3.​2.​2 for details).
Although not a training platform, we also want to remind readers in this context about the Hardening Project competition that we reviewed in detail in Sect. 3.​4. During that competition, participants have to deal with security incidents and patch vulnerabilities of a virtual e-commerce website created for the purpose of the event. Such defense skills are readily usable in real-life situations, and we consider that Hardening Project is one of the best examples of how to conduct an effective defense training with immediate practical application.
Security Relevance Score: 15
Word Count: 1584
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

6.3.4 Defense Training PlatformsThere seem to be a relatively small number of training platforms that are explicitly aimed at defense training. Even a platform such as CyberDefenders3, which defines itself as a “blue team training platform for SOC analysts, threat hunters, security blue teams and DFIR professionals,” seems to be mainly geared toward forensics training. Thus, from the 142 free and pro tier training labs available at the time of writing, 111 of them—that is, almost 80%—are related to forensics (malware analysis, network forensics, endpoint forensics, etc.). Only the remaining 31 labs—that is, 20% of the total number—are related to topics that are actually defense oriented, such as threat intel and threat hunting, and detection engineering.However, even though most publicly available platforms are generally targeted at attack training, several of them allow attack-defend type of exercises. This makes it possible for trainees to also practice their defense skills, as illustrated in the following two examples of such platforms:TryHackMe [14]: A browser-based gamified cybersecurity training platform that provides learning content for various skill level participants. The most important feature from a defense training perspective is the support for attack-defend competitions in the “king of the hill” format. In this case, participants must prevent other players from compromising a target machine, for example, by patching its vulnerabilities. Furthermore, the amount of points awarded to other players can be minimized by evicting them from that machine (see Sect. 10.​2.​2.​2 for details).Facebook CTF [2]: An open-source CTF platform developed by Facebook [2] that can be used to organize competitions with hundreds of participants. The attack-defend type of challenge, named Bases, is also a “king of the hill” type of game. Similarly to TryHackMe, participants must both harden the bases to prevent their capture, and also attempt to evict other players to limit the number of points awarded to them (see Sect. 10.​3.​2.​2 for details).
Although not a training platform, we also want to remind readers in this context about the Hardening Project competition that we reviewed in detail in Sect. 3.​4. During that competition, participants have to deal with security incidents and patch vulnerabilities of a virtual e-commerce website created for the purpose of the event. Such defense skills are readily usable in real-life situations, and we consider that Hardening Project is one of the best examples of how to conduct an effective defense training with immediate practical application.

6.4 DiscussionAs we did for the cases of attack and forensics training, in this section we will discuss the main advantages of defense training, but also the potential issues that can be expected when conducting this kind of training activities. These aspects will be examined both from the trainee and organizer perspectives, so as to facilitate a full understanding of the matter.6.4.1 Main AdvantagesDefense training has several advantages compared to the other forms of cybersecurity training, as we will discuss next.6.4.1.1 Trainee PerspectiveWe will start with the trainee perspective in order to see what can make defense training attractive from their point of view.Career Opportunities Perhaps the most important advantage of defense training for trainees is that defense skills open considerable career opportunities. All organizations need cybersecurity personnel who are capable of defending them from cyber threats. Hence, defense training builds highly requested abilities that enable trainees to find employment in various environments.One of the most recognized certifications in this area is CISSP4 (Certified Information Systems Security Professional), which is a way for candidates to prove their knowledge regarding security practices and principles. CISSP certification is required or recommended for a wide variety of cybersecurity job positions, including Security Analyst, Security Manager, Security Architect, etc.Growth Potential Related to career opportunities, it is important to note that given the vast amount of knowledge and skills related to cyber defense, the training process is usually done in stages. This means that, after acquiring a sufficient amount of skills, trainees can already start working in job positions such as entry-level Cybersecurity Operation Center (CSOC) analyst, for example.Such security analyst roles are usually available as a multi-tier system, with growing responsibilities once one acquires more experience via the on-the-job exposure to real cyber threats and cybersecurity tools. Such growth potential is a very attractive aspect of defense training.
6.4.1.2 Organizer PerspectiveAs for the organizer perspective, some of the most important advantages of defense training are as follows.Trainee Maturity Trainees who seek to conduct attack training, and to some extent basic forms of forensics training, are often young and inexperienced. However, defense training programs are usually attended by candidates who are more mature, and sometimes even experienced professionals, as defense skills are mainly required for organization employees. These characteristics of the trainees makes it easier to conduct training activities, as those trainees possess not only a wide variety of technical skills, but also job know-how, sense of responsibility, etc.Moreover, trainees with professional experience can also contribute via feedback to organizers, thus helping to improve the training activity. For instance, examples of incidents from their own organizations, and information about the practical defense needs of those organizations, can assist training organizers in designing more suitable and targeted training content.Workforce Contribution As mentioned in the beginning of this book, there is a huge worldwide workforce gap in the area of cybersecurity [5]. Professionals with defense training represent a significant contribution to this workforce, and this type of contribution can be considered a strong motivating factor for organizers to conduct defense training programs.We believe that efforts such as Hardening Project [15] are huge steps in this direction. We hope that such examples of ways in which defense training can be effectively performed will inspire organizers to create new programs that make possible defense training activities in an accessible manner and at a wider scale.

6.4.2 Potential IssuesAs with the other forms of cybersecurity training, defense training is also associated with several potential issues that we will examine next.6.4.2.1 Trainee PerspectiveFirst we will discuss the trainee point of view, and see what difficulties they may encounter in the case of defense training.Defense Challenges Being proficient at cyber defense is a difficult task, as defenders have to face many challenges. This is because, in order for an attack to be successful, it is enough if an adversary manages to identify and exploit a single vulnerability. On the other hand, in order for the defense process to be effective, defenders must harden the overall system and patch all its vulnerabilities.Moreover, defense requires a wide range of skills—not only the specific defense abilities that we discussed in this chapter, but also forensics-related skills that are typically associated with forensics training. Consequently, trainees need a strong motivation in order to fully benefit of defense training.Acquiring Non-technical Skills Similarly to forensics training, defense training also requires trainees to learn various non-technical skills. A clear example in this sense is the Govern function of the CSF framework (see Sect. 6.3.2.1), which is related to establishing, communicating and monitoring the cybersecurity risk management strategy, expectations and policy of an organization.Accordingly, trainees who do not have enough professional experience may find it difficult to grasp and learn such advanced non-technical skills. Nevertheless, some of these skills are part of the typical workplace skills that are required in any professional environment and mastering them presents additional advantages for trainees.
6.4.2.2 Organizer PerspectiveOrganizers are also faced with various issues in relation with defense training, which we will examine next.Environment Setup Issues Making available a realistic environment is a key component for the success of defense training. One aspect is, of course, that the training environment mimics as closely as possible a real network, so that trainees can easily transfer the skills they have learnt to real-life situations. However, the most challenging part for defense training is to orchestrate live attacks that give trainees the opportunity to validate their practical abilities.In some cases, such as the Hardening Project competition mentioned before, the live attacks are conducted by white-hat hackers who belong to supporting organizations [15]. This requires dedicating those experts to the task and is also associated with large financial and time costs. We consider that the live attack orchestration challenge explains perhaps best why defense training exercises are not organized as often as those related to attack or forensics training.An alternative solution is to leverage the advances in Machine Learning (ML) techniques, and to deploy ML-based autonomous penetration testing agents as replacement for the human red team. The Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) based agents described in [4] could be used for this purpose, for example. However, such autonomous agents do not have yet an equivalent performance with human experts, so future improvements are required.Teaching Non-technical Skills The potential issue mentioned above for trainees in relation with acquiring non-technical skills is also relevant from an organizer perspective. Teaching high-level topics, in particular, such as how to consider the risk management strategy of an organization, requires instructors to have deep professional knowledge about organizations as well.Nevertheless, this teaching task is simplified when trainees have some professional experience, as it happens in many cases for defense training, since they are often already familiar with many of the organization-level concepts.


References1.Cisco: snort website. https://​www.​snort.​org/​. Accessed 1 July 2024
2.Facebook, Inc. Platform to host capture the flag competitions. https://​github.​com/​facebookarchive/​fbctf. Accessed 1 July 2024
3.Greenbone AG. Greenbone openVAS. https://​openvas.​org/​. Accessed 1 July 2024
4.Hu Z, Beuran R, Tan Y (2020) Automated penetration testing using deep reinforcement learning. In: IEEE European symposium on security and privacy workshops (EuroS &PW 2020), workshop on cyber range applications and technologies (CACOE’20), pp 2–10
5.ISC2 (2023) cybersecurity workforce study
