# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - Skills: Ranges from ""Individual Skills"" to ""CSIRT Skills,"" with a focus on ""Target Trainee Skills"" and ""Team Skills.""2. Content: Progresses from ""Simple Tasks"" to ""Continuous Scenario,"" emphasizing ""Training Content Realism"" and ""Realistic Scenario.""3. Environment: Moves from ""Desktop Environment"" to ""Emulated/Real Environment,"" highlighting ""Training Environment Realism"" and ""Virtual Network Environment.""4. Cost: Increases from ""Low Cost"" to ""High Cost,"" with ""Overall Training Cost"" marked as ""Medium Cost.""The diagram visually represents the development path in training programs, balancing skills, content, environment, and cost."Fig. 3.2Relationship between the various characteristics of technical cybersecurity training: target skills, content type, environment type and training cost
Finding the most suitable combination of design elements for a training activity basically requires a trade-off between the realism of the training and its cost, given a certain set of target skills. For individual skill training, scenarios based on problems and questions are sufficient in most cases, and a desktop-based training environment can typically be used to implement such scenarios. Consequently, the training cost will be relatively low.When moving toward targeting team skills, the complexity of the training scenarios must be increased to make them more realistic, and the complexity of the training environment will increase accordingly, for example, through the use of basic VM environments or even more complex virtual network environments. This will also drive up the cost of the training activity, as setup becomes more difficult.Finally, for training CSIRT skills, complex continuous scenarios are required, which can only be put into practice through the use of network emulation techniques, or real network environments. The costs associated with setting up such environments, including the development and run-time support of the appropriate scenarios, are high, as expected. Network emulation is a powerful technique in this context, since its hybrid approach makes it possible to create realistic environments, while lowering the deployment costs (see [1] for an introduction to this topic).
Security Relevance Score: 15
Word Count: 2035
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Skills: Ranges from ""Individual Skills"" to ""CSIRT Skills,"" with a focus on ""Target Trainee Skills"" and ""Team Skills.""2. Content: Progresses from ""Simple Tasks"" to ""Continuous Scenario,"" emphasizing ""Training Content Realism"" and ""Realistic Scenario.""3. Environment: Moves from ""Desktop Environment"" to ""Emulated/Real Environment,"" highlighting ""Training Environment Realism"" and ""Virtual Network Environment.""4. Cost: Increases from ""Low Cost"" to ""High Cost,"" with ""Overall Training Cost"" marked as ""Medium Cost.""The diagram visually represents the development path in training programs, balancing skills, content, environment, and cost."Fig. 3.2Relationship between the various characteristics of technical cybersecurity training: target skills, content type, environment type and training cost
Finding the most suitable combination of design elements for a training activity basically requires a trade-off between the realism of the training and its cost, given a certain set of target skills. For individual skill training, scenarios based on problems and questions are sufficient in most cases, and a desktop-based training environment can typically be used to implement such scenarios. Consequently, the training cost will be relatively low.When moving toward targeting team skills, the complexity of the training scenarios must be increased to make them more realistic, and the complexity of the training environment will increase accordingly, for example, through the use of basic VM environments or even more complex virtual network environments. This will also drive up the cost of the training activity, as setup becomes more difficult.Finally, for training CSIRT skills, complex continuous scenarios are required, which can only be put into practice through the use of network emulation techniques, or real network environments. The costs associated with setting up such environments, including the development and run-time support of the appropriate scenarios, are high, as expected. Network emulation is a powerful technique in this context, since its hybrid approach makes it possible to create realistic environments, while lowering the deployment costs (see [1] for an introduction to this topic).

3.1.3 Training CharacteristicsIn addition to training purpose and training approach, there are several other characteristics of technical training activities that we consider important for fully defining a certain cybersecurity training program, as follows:Target participants: Who is the program mostly addressed to?Prerequisite ability: What is the expected ability level of the target participants?Barriers to entry: Is training participation subject to restrictions?Training frequency: What is the frequency of the training events?
3.1.3.1 Target ParticipantsThe way in which a cybersecurity training program is designed depends strongly on the type of participants that it is mainly addressed to. By considering the background of the trainees, one can ensure that they benefit as much as possible from the training.For example, some training programs are targeted at students and should take into account their initial lack of skills, whereas other programs are mainly targeted at professionals, for whom honing their already existing skills is the main goal, hence the training content should be more challenging.
3.1.3.2 Prerequisite AbilitySomewhat related to the type of the target participants is their expected ability level. This influences, for instance, the manner in which the instructors design training content, as content that is too easy or too difficult compared to the ability level of the participants decreases their motivation.Even within a certain class of participants, let us say university students, it may be advantageous to assess their skill level on an individual basis. Then, the participants can be split into groups, for example, beginner, medium, and advanced, so that the content can be tailored accordingly.
3.1.3.3 Barriers to EntryWhen differentiating between cybersecurity training programs, it is useful to know whether participation to the program is subject to any barriers to entry. There can be many kinds of restrictions, such as age limitations (for example, only participants under 25 years old can attend), any type of membership requirements, etc.Financial cost as well can be considered a potential barrier to entry, since expensive training programs are more difficult to attend, especially if the trainees must bear the cost themselves. Therefore, lowering the cost of training programs can be considered as an important objective for organizers.
3.1.3.4 Training FrequencyAnother characteristic of cybersecurity training programs is the frequency of the training events or sessions that are held. Most training programs, especially those organized on-site, take place according to a predefined schedule, being held, for example, several times a year.Some training programs, however, can be held on demand. This is the case for most online programs, but it can also happen when an organizing institution offers an on-demand training service to its customers. The training frequency of a program determines the number of opportunities participants have for taking that program, hence, its availability.

3.1.4 Theoretical TrainingIn this book, we use the term technical cybersecurity training to refer mainly to those training activities that include hands-on aspects. However, for the sake of completeness, we will discuss here some approaches to cybersecurity education and training that focus on knowledge, as opposed to the practical skills gained through hands-on training.While we consider theoretical training to be mostly outside the scope of this book, we deem it to be a very important aspect of cybersecurity education, that complements the practical training activities, hence it needs to be discussed at least briefly. In particular, the two such types of theoretical cybersecurity training that we will examine are the following:Online courses.Tabletop exercises.
3.1.4.1 Online CoursesThe online courses in this area are typically introductory courses that present the basic concepts regarding cybersecurity. Usually, they are considered as the first step toward becoming a cybersecurity professional, with more practice-oriented training following in the later years.One example in this category is the course entitled Foundations of Cybersecurity that is available on the Coursera platform [3]. The course content is implemented by Google as the first part of the Google Cybersecurity Professional Certificate course series. There are four modules in the course, starting with an introduction to the world of cybersecurity, followed by information about the evolution of cybersecurity, and how to protect systems against threats, risks, and vulnerabilities. The last module covers cybersecurity tools and programming languages. The course consists of videos, reading materials, videos, quizzes, and discussion prompts, and it is provided in an instructor-led manner. The estimated completion duration is approximately 20 h.In addition to the aforementioned course, the Google Cybersecurity Professional Certificate course series available on Coursera includes seven other courses, many of them having more practical content, such as how to use Linux commands to manage the file system, or how to automate cybersecurity tasks using Python [4].
3.1.4.2 Tabletop ExercisesOne disadvantage of online courses is that learners’ involvement is relatively low, as they are mostly passively receiving information, with occasional quizzes to check knowledge retention. As a way to address this issue, another type of theoretical training that became popular in the area of cybersecurity is tabletop training. A tabletop exercise consists of a discussion-based training session in which the participants discuss their roles and responses in a given situation or scenario, such as cybersecurity incident response.The tabletop approach makes it possible to involve the trainees actively, for instance in the decision process needed to solve the challenges presented during the training. Nevertheless, tabletop exercises do not have built-in learning features, nor do they include technical hands-on exercises. Therefore, they are mostly useful once other forms of education and training have been completed, such as related cybersecurity education courses available in universities or online.As an example, tabletop training is being promoted by the U.S. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) as an effective way to conduct planning exercises on a wide range of threat scenarios. For this purpose, CISA makes available more than 100 tabletop exercise packages that include all the resources needed for stakeholders to be able to conduct exercises by themselves. The threat vector scenarios cover several important cybersecurity areas, such as ransomware, insider threats, phishing, and so on [11].


3.2 Cybersecurity Skill OverviewWhile cybersecurity skills can be classified broadly into individual, team, and CSIRT skills, as mentioned in Sect. 3.1.2.1, a more precise categorization is required in order to be able to define what specific skills a training program should address. Such categorizations are included in frameworks related to the cybersecurity workforce and skills, as it will be detailed next.3.2.1 Workforce and Skill FrameworksOrganizations in various countries have proposed frameworks which specify the skills and knowledge that are relevant for various cybersecurity tasks, known as workforce frameworks or skill frameworks. In what follows, we briefly introduce the most well-known frameworks of this kind.3.2.1.1 NICE FrameworkThe U.S. NIST Workforce Framework for Cybersecurity (NICE Framework) is a framework that provides the building blocks needed to describe the Tasks, Knowledge, and Skills (TKS) that are needed to perform cybersecurity work by individuals or teams [10]. Organizations can use these building blocks to develop their cybersecurity workforces. In addition, learners can use them to explore various cybersecurity domains and to engage in learning activities for developing their capabilities. The main elements of the NICE Framework will be described next based on v1.0.0 of the framework released in March 2024.Work Role Categories Conceptually, at the top level of the NICE Framework lie the work role categories, which are used to classify the possible work roles in the cybersecurity domain. In particular, a total of seven categories are defined, as follows: 1.Oversight and Governance. 2.Design and Development. 3.Implementation and Operation. 4.Protection and Defense. 5.Investigation. 6.Cyberspace Intelligence. 7.Cyberspace Effects. Work Roles For each of the above work role categories, a series of concrete work roles are specified in the framework, for a total of 52 work roles. For example, the work roles in the Protection and Defense category are:Defensive Cybersecurity.Digital Forensics.Incident Response.Infrastructure Support.Insider Threat Analysis.Threat Analysis.Vulnerability Analysis.Tasks, Knowledge, and Skills At the lowest level of the NICE Framework are its building blocks, which are tasks, knowledge, and skills statements (2280 in total):Task Statements: Descriptions of cybersecurity actions that are to be accomplished by professionals (1084).Knowledge Statements: Descriptions of the understanding needed to be able to complete the associated task (640).Skills Statements: Descriptions of the skills that must be demonstrated in order to be able to complete the associated task (556).
An essential aspect of the NICE Framework is the list of associations provided between each work role and a set of task, knowledge, and skill statements that are relevant for that particular work role.Competency Areas Competencies represent mechanisms by which organizations are able to assess learners. The framework defines a set of 11 such areas, which represent clusters of related knowledge and skill statements that correlate with the capabilities of a person to perform the tasks that are required in a given cybersecurity domain. For example, the Operating Systems (OS) Security competency area is defined as follows [10]:This Competency Area describes a learner’s capabilities to install, administer, troubleshoot, backup, and conduct recovery of Operating Systems (OS), including in simulated environments.

3.2.1.2 ECSF FrameworkThe European Cybersecurity Skills Framework (ECSF) is a framework created by the European Union Agency for Cybersecurity (ENISA) [5]. We will provide an overview of this framework below by referring to ECSF v1, which was published in October 2022.Role Profiles ECSF defines a total of 12 cybersecurity role profiles that represent the possible work roles in this domain, as follows: 1.Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). 2.Cyber Incident Responder. 3.Cyber Legal, Policy & Compliance Officer. 4.Cyber Threat Intelligence Specialist. 5.Cybersecurity Architect. 6.Cybersecurity Auditor. 7.Cybersecurity Educator. 8.Cybersecurity Implementer. 9.Cybersecurity Researcher. 10.Cybersecurity Risk Manager. 11.Digital Forensics Investigator. 12.Penetration Tester. Tasks, Knowledge, and Skills ECSF also specifies a set of tasks, knowledge, and skills (275 in total), as follows:Task statements: Descriptions of relevant tasks (125).Knowledge statements: Descriptions of required knowledge (67).Skill statements: Descriptions of required skills (83).
Each task, knowledge, and skill statement is associated with one or more of the previously defined role profiles. However, no direct correspondence between the task, knowledge, and skill statements themselves seems to be included, as it is done in the NICE Framework.E-Competences E-competences are those competencies that professionals matching a given role profile must have, and they are classified into five categories: Plan, Build, Run, Enable, and Manage. Each e-competence category includes a number of e-competences (41 in total), such as the following ones for the Build category:Application Development.Component Integration.Testing.Solution Deployment.Documentation Production.ICT Systems Engineering.
For each e-competence, the level that is required for a given role profile is specified on a scale from 1 to
