# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - One of the most often used types of ICS is SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition), which is a standardized control system architecture utilized for large industrial systems in particular.Given the predominantly industrial background of CPS in general, and ICS in particular, we consider them to be outside the scope of the discussion in this chapter. Nevertheless, ICS have their specific security issues, such as the various potential vulnerabilities of SCADA systems [3]. Therefore, we note that there are dedicated training programs related to ICS, such as the Industrial Cyber Security Center of Excellence (ICSCoE) in Japan [19]. Another example is the ICS training facility and related course discussed in [5] that use open-source hardware and software to provide reconfigurable ICS modules. Moreover, Sifu is a cybersecurity training platform focusing on software development in industrial settings that employs AI-based techniques for challenge assessment and intelligent coaching [13].There are many other application fields that have their specific type of IoT devices. For example, the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) refers to the use of IoT devices in the context of healthcare, and the devices that fall into this category include smart wearable devices used for health monitoring and emergency notification purposes, smart medical devices, etc. For various examples of training platforms related to ICS and IoMT, readers should refer to Sect. 11.​3.Some of the challenges related to IoT security training stem from the huge diversity of IoT devices. This means that, while IoT technologies have many high-level aspects in common that can be taught theoretically, there is no “one size fits all” approach that can be taken in terms of the actual devices and technologies used in hands-on exercises. Consequently, instructors need to either consider typical devices (e.g., Raspberry Pi) and technologies (e.g., Wi-Fi communication) when designing the training content, or have very clear use cases (e.g., industrial automation) as models for the creation of the content.It is also important to point out in this context that, while most training approaches rely on actual devices as hands-on platforms for the training practice, some solutions use simulated virtual devices instead, with some specific advantages and disadvantages, as it will be discussed in Sect. 7.3.
Security Relevance Score: 8
Word Count: 414
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

One of the most often used types of ICS is SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition), which is a standardized control system architecture utilized for large industrial systems in particular.Given the predominantly industrial background of CPS in general, and ICS in particular, we consider them to be outside the scope of the discussion in this chapter. Nevertheless, ICS have their specific security issues, such as the various potential vulnerabilities of SCADA systems [3]. Therefore, we note that there are dedicated training programs related to ICS, such as the Industrial Cyber Security Center of Excellence (ICSCoE) in Japan [19]. Another example is the ICS training facility and related course discussed in [5] that use open-source hardware and software to provide reconfigurable ICS modules. Moreover, Sifu is a cybersecurity training platform focusing on software development in industrial settings that employs AI-based techniques for challenge assessment and intelligent coaching [13].There are many other application fields that have their specific type of IoT devices. For example, the Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) refers to the use of IoT devices in the context of healthcare, and the devices that fall into this category include smart wearable devices used for health monitoring and emergency notification purposes, smart medical devices, etc. For various examples of training platforms related to ICS and IoMT, readers should refer to Sect. 11.​3.Some of the challenges related to IoT security training stem from the huge diversity of IoT devices. This means that, while IoT technologies have many high-level aspects in common that can be taught theoretically, there is no “one size fits all” approach that can be taken in terms of the actual devices and technologies used in hands-on exercises. Consequently, instructors need to either consider typical devices (e.g., Raspberry Pi) and technologies (e.g., Wi-Fi communication) when designing the training content, or have very clear use cases (e.g., industrial automation) as models for the creation of the content.It is also important to point out in this context that, while most training approaches rely on actual devices as hands-on platforms for the training practice, some solutions use simulated virtual devices instead, with some specific advantages and disadvantages, as it will be discussed in Sect. 7.3.
7.1.2 IoT Device RisksThe huge variety of IoT devices creates a large attack surface that has often been exploited for malicious purposes in recent years. One of the most publicized such attacks was the DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service) attack on the DNS (Domain Name System) provider named Dyn that occurred in
