# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - The function of each syntax element is as follows:id: Identifier of the training activity, which is displayed in the Moodle LMS for easy reference, but is also used internally to manage the training database.title: Short description of the training activity that is displayed as activity title in the Moodle LMS user interface.overview: Detailed description of the training activity that provides the background for trainees to understand the tasks that follow. It plays a particularly important role when using gamified content, as it establishes the necessary background story (see lines 5–13 in Fig. 12.2). HTML code can be used within this element for text formatting, and even to include images in the description.level: Optional label that is used to identify their order for training activities that are part of a series; this label can also be used as an indication of the difficulty level of an activity.questions: List of questions or tasks that the trainees must address; each question is represented using the syntax explained below.
Table 12.1Overview of training content representation syntax for the training descriptionElementMeaningidIdentifier for the training activitytitleTitle of the training activityoverviewDetailed description of the training activitylevelOptional label for the training activity sequence/difficultyquestionsList of questions or tasks that are to be solved by trainees
Table 12.2Overview of training content representation syntax for the question descriptionElementMeaningidIdentifier of the question/taskbodyExplanation of the question/task to be addressedanswerCorrect solution for the question/taskhintsOptional hints to assist trainees
Question Description For each question that trainees must answer or task that they must solve, detailed information about that question or task must be provided in CyTrONE according to the syntax summarized in Table 12.2. The meaning of the syntax elements used to define questions is as follows:id: Identifier of the question; this is currently used only internally to refer to that question for processing purposes.body: Explanation of the question/task to be addressed, which should provide enough information so that trainees can attempt to solve it (see lines 18–21 in Fig. 12.2). HTML code can be used within this element for text formatting purposes, for instance, in order to highlight some keywords.answer: Correct solution for the question/task; this information is used only internally to check whether the answer provided by a trainee is correct or not.hints: Optional hints to assist those trainees who encounter troubles solving the corresponding question/task; multiple hints can be provided for one question (see lines 23–27 in Fig. 12.2). Depending on the goal of the training, the hints can be very specific or vague; hints can be even omitted if the training is conducted for trainee examination purposes. HTML code can be used in hints for text formatting, e.g., in order to emphasize command names.
Multiple blocks composed of the above syntax elements can be included in order to have an arbitrary number of questions in a training activity. While not discussed here, it is also possible to include multiple-choice questions in the training content, as well as multiple correct solutions for a question.
Security Relevance Score: 4
Word Count: 878
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

The function of each syntax element is as follows:id: Identifier of the training activity, which is displayed in the Moodle LMS for easy reference, but is also used internally to manage the training database.title: Short description of the training activity that is displayed as activity title in the Moodle LMS user interface.overview: Detailed description of the training activity that provides the background for trainees to understand the tasks that follow. It plays a particularly important role when using gamified content, as it establishes the necessary background story (see lines 5–13 in Fig. 12.2). HTML code can be used within this element for text formatting, and even to include images in the description.level: Optional label that is used to identify their order for training activities that are part of a series; this label can also be used as an indication of the difficulty level of an activity.questions: List of questions or tasks that the trainees must address; each question is represented using the syntax explained below.
Table 12.1Overview of training content representation syntax for the training descriptionElementMeaningidIdentifier for the training activitytitleTitle of the training activityoverviewDetailed description of the training activitylevelOptional label for the training activity sequence/difficultyquestionsList of questions or tasks that are to be solved by trainees
Table 12.2Overview of training content representation syntax for the question descriptionElementMeaningidIdentifier of the question/taskbodyExplanation of the question/task to be addressedanswerCorrect solution for the question/taskhintsOptional hints to assist trainees
Question Description For each question that trainees must answer or task that they must solve, detailed information about that question or task must be provided in CyTrONE according to the syntax summarized in Table 12.2. The meaning of the syntax elements used to define questions is as follows:id: Identifier of the question; this is currently used only internally to refer to that question for processing purposes.body: Explanation of the question/task to be addressed, which should provide enough information so that trainees can attempt to solve it (see lines 18–21 in Fig. 12.2). HTML code can be used within this element for text formatting purposes, for instance, in order to highlight some keywords.answer: Correct solution for the question/task; this information is used only internally to check whether the answer provided by a trainee is correct or not.hints: Optional hints to assist those trainees who encounter troubles solving the corresponding question/task; multiple hints can be provided for one question (see lines 23–27 in Fig. 12.2). Depending on the goal of the training, the hints can be very specific or vague; hints can be even omitted if the training is conducted for trainee examination purposes. HTML code can be used in hints for text formatting, e.g., in order to emphasize command names.
Multiple blocks composed of the above syntax elements can be included in order to have an arbitrary number of questions in a training activity. While not discussed here, it is also possible to include multiple-choice questions in the training content, as well as multiple correct solutions for a question.
12.3.1.3 Representation ProcessingThe processing flow of the training content representation discussed so far involves mainly the sequence of steps explained below.1.CyTrONE reads the training content representation file from the training database and sends it to CyLMS. 2.CyLMS processes the representation file and converts it to SCORM format. 3.Then, CyLMS creates a new activity in the Moodle LMS, which employs the SCORM format file as its content. 
The most complex step in this workflow is step 2, as it requires parsing the representation format and converting it to the specific syntax used by SCORM. This step is very important in our framework, as it makes it possible to leverage the overall functionality of Moodle, and it isolates the internal representation syntax of CyTrONE from that of SCORM.Note that the workflow presented above is relatively generic. Based on the same paradigm, a conversion to representation formats different than SCORM that may be specific to other LMSs is possible. However, the relative universality of SCORM makes this unnecessary, in principle. Moreover, the only step in the workflow that would need to be modified if another SCORM-compatible LMS is used in step 3, which is Moodle dependent.

12.3.2 Training Content ExamplesNow that we have seen how the training content is represented in CyTrONE, we will discuss two sets of training content that we developed for this framework by using two different content creation perspectives. These two sets of training content are available for download free of charge on the Cyber Range Organization and Design (CROND) web page [9].In addition to illustrating the general characteristics of cybersecurity training content, and the capabilities of CyTrONE, this discussion will also illustrate how the concepts we have discussed in Sect. 9.​2 can be put into practice when designing training content for two typical use cases.Gamified training content.CTF-style training content.
12.3.2.1 Gamified Training ContentThe first training content set that we will introduce uses a gamified approach to make the training activity more enjoyable. In particular, a role-playing scenario is used that has trainees assume the role of a newly appointed system administrator who needs to investigate a possible cybersecurity incident, followed by an assessment of the company’s network security.Content Overview The tasks included in this training set are inspired by the U.S. NIST Technical Guide to Information Security Testing and Assessment discussed in Sect. 4.​3.​2.​
