# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 5 - For example, for the Build category mentioned above, the role Cyber Incident Responder requires a level 2 e-competence for Component Integration, and level 3 e-competences for Testing and Documentation Production.Deliverables Deliverables are high-level outcomes that a professional with a given role profile must produce, with a total of 22 deliverables being specified. For example, for the CISO role profile, ECSF defines the following two deliverables, Cybersecurity Strategy and Cybersecurity Policy.
Security Relevance Score: 13
Word Count: 3271
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

For example, for the Build category mentioned above, the role Cyber Incident Responder requires a level 2 e-competence for Component Integration, and level 3 e-competences for Testing and Documentation Production.Deliverables Deliverables are high-level outcomes that a professional with a given role profile must produce, with a total of 22 deliverables being specified. For example, for the CISO role profile, ECSF defines the following two deliverables, Cybersecurity Strategy and Cybersecurity Policy.
3.2.1.3 SecBoK FrameworkSecurity Body of Knowledge (SecBoK) is a framework created by the Japan Network Security Association that specifies the required knowledge and skills for a series of cybersecurity work roles [7]. The latest version, released in May 2021, aims to shift the focus of the framework from simple skill development to achieving a coordination between skills, tasks, and roles. The description we provide below is based on this latest version, also referred to as SecBoK 2021.Work Roles SecBoK 2021 defines a total of 16 work roles in connection with cybersecurity, as follows: 1.Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). 2.Point of Contact (POC). 3.Notification. 4.Commander/Triage. 5.Incident Manager/Incident Handler. 6.Curator. 7.Researcher. 8.Self-assessment/Solution Analyst. 9.Vulnerability Diagnostician. 10.Education/Public Awareness. 11.Forensic Engineer. 12.Investigator. 13.Legal Advisor. 14.IT Planning Department. 15.IT Systems Department. 16.Information Security Auditor. 
We note that SecBoK 2021 also includes a mapping of the work roles it specifies into the work roles defined in the NICE Framework.Human Resources Skill Map The core of SecBoK is represented by the human resources skill map, which establishes the relationship between knowledge, skills and abilities, and the work roles mentioned above. The total number of knowledge, skill and ability items is 1145, with the most notable aspects in the skill map regarding these items being as follows:The knowledge domain and subdomain an item belongs to are indicated, with 18 knowledge domains being defined; for some items, even a knowledge sub-subdomain is specified.The required work experience level for mastering a particular knowledge or skill item is defined, with the following possible values:Low: Can be handled even with less than 3 years of experience.Medium: Requires more than 3 years of experience or related training.High: Requires more than 10 years of experience or advanced training.Pending: Items related to information gathering and intelligence that are not subject to level assignment at this time.
The required knowledge, skill, or ability for a particular role is specified via three possible choices, each being assigned a numerical code:Prerequisite (1): Knowledge and skills considered as a premise for being able to perform that role.Required (2): Knowledge and skills required to actually perform that role.Reference (0.5): Knowledge and skills that are not required to perform that role, but are desirable.

Regarding the relationship between the prerequisite and required labels mentioned above, it is mentioned in SecBoK that if an organization can secure personnel having the prerequisite skills and provides them with education and training regarding the required skills, then it can be considered that the personnel will be able to handle their role in a satisfactory manner.

3.2.2 Cybersecurity Skill AnalysisIn what follows, we will first compare the discussed workforce and skill frameworks, and then provide suggestions on how the target skills of a given cybersecurity training program can be evaluated based on such frameworks.3.2.2.1 Framework ComparisonIn order to compare the three frameworks that we have introduced, we will look at their main elements, as follows:Work Roles The NICE Framework defines the largest amount of work roles, 52, which means its level of detail is much higher compared to the 12 role profiles in ECSF, and the 16 work roles in SecBoK. While some correspondence can be established between the work roles defined in each of the three frameworks, as it is done between SecBoK and NICE, it appears that no complete consensus can be reached, as there are a number of conceptual differences between them.TKS Statements The NICE Framework also defines the largest amount of TKS statements, 2280 in total, followed by SecBoK with a total of 1145 statements (although no tasks are included). The lowest number appears in ECSF, only 275 in total, meaning that those statements are made at a relatively higher abstraction level. Nevertheless, it can be said that all the three frameworks have a reasonable amount of TKS statements in relation with the number of work roles they define. Although the ratio of statements over roles is relatively high for SecBoK, we reiterate that no tasks are defined in that framework, which includes ability statements, however.Competencies For competencies, ECSF has the largest number, with a total of 41 e-competences, followed by SecBoK with 18 knowledge domains. There are only 11 competencies defined in the NICE Framework. It is also important to note that ECSF associates a competency level to the e-competences it specifies, which is not done for the other frameworks.Specific Elements Even though the three frameworks we discussed have many elements in common, there are several specific aspects that differentiate them even further, such asDeliverables are a specific element of ECSF, corresponding to high-level outcomes that are not considered in NICE and SecBoK, but that can be useful from a cybersecurity education and training perspective.SecBoK defines required work experience levels for each knowledge, skill and ability item, which provides an estimate about how much effort is required to master that particular item.When mapping knowledge, skill and ability item to work roles, SecBoK also defines whether that item is prerequisite, required, or desirable for that role, a very useful piece of information for making training-related decisions.

3.2.2.2 Target Skill EvaluationEach of the three frameworks we presented was conceived with a certain goal in mind; therefore, despite their similarities, there are several differences regarding their scope, not to mention the use of different naming conventions. Consequently, we suggest learners focus on the framework that is most suitable for the geographic area in which the training activity takes place, or in which the job position they aim for is located. The corresponding skill classification can then be used to make various decisions about training programs and platforms, as we will discuss next.Let us consider first the case of a potential learner who needs to decide whether a given training program is suitable for them or not. By checking which of the skills associated with their current or intended work role can be acquired or improved via the program, they can determine if that program is indeed appropriate. Note that several of the existing cyber range platforms provide information about the coverage of their exercises with respect to a workforce framework such as the NICE Framework, as it will be seen in Chap. 11.Another possible scenario is when a training organization needs to decide what kind of training content to create. In that case, by starting from the work roles of the target participants, the organization can develop training content that covers as many as possible of the TKS statements corresponding to those target work roles. We consider that similar strategies can be used in many other situations, which makes the workforce and skill frameworks we discussed a very practical tool for cybersecurity education and training.In this context, we would also like to mention the Cybersecurity Skills Alliance REWIRE project that aims to develop a blueprint for the cybersecurity industry and a concrete European cybersecurity skills strategy [6]. The still-ongoing project is expected to end in October 2024, when all its deliverables will become available, providing a wealth of relevant information, with the deliverables of WP3: Design of the European Cybersecurity Blueprint being of particular interest in our opinion.


3.3 Training EffectivenessAs we have seen so far, there are many approaches to cybersecurity training, each with its different characteristics. This begs the question of how to determine the effectiveness of a particular training approach or training program, as well as how to improve this effectiveness, which we will investigate below.3.3.1 Effectiveness RequirementsThe taxonomy of technical cybersecurity training that we discussed so far, as well as the more detailed comparative analysis of a diversity of training programs presented in [2], makes it possible to formulate a series of requirements that must be met in order to ensure the effectiveness of the training activity. Thus, in order for a training program to be effective, we consider that it must satisfy the following conditions: 1.The difficulty of the training content should match the target audience in terms of knowledge and ability levels. 2.The training content should be created in accordance with the skills that the program aims to develop. 3.The training program should use hands-on activities for developing practical skills, thus ensuring that trainees can handle real-life security issues. 4.The training program should reach as large an audience as possible in order to have a significant impact on the cybersecurity readiness of the workforce. 5.The training program should have good cost/performance characteristics, leading to long-term sustainability. 
Deciding whether one of the above requirements is met or not is not necessarily straightforward, but for some of them objective decisions can be made relatively easily. For instance, training content can be considered effective (requirement #2) if it provides learners with the opportunity to practice all the skills and validate all the knowledge required in connection with a given training goal. To determine what these skills and knowledge are, a workforce framework such as those discussed in Sect. 3.2.1 can be used as reference.
3.3.2 Necessary Implementation FeaturesAlthough there are various ways to ensure that the above requirements are met in practice, we note that they all refer to two key aspects of any cybersecurity training program, namely the training content used in that program, and the hands-on activities that are included in it.Therefore, in terms of practical implementation, the above requirements can be converted into two necessary features for the creation of an effective technical cybersecurity training platform: 1.Ability to easily modify the training content and to add new content. 2.Ability to automatically create and manage the training environment. 
3.3.2.1 Training Content AspectsThe first necessary feature that we identified—easy modification and addition of training content—addresses the need for producing content that is suitable for the training audience and the target skills of the program.Such an ability would solve an issue that many current training programs have in common, namely that training content, such as training activity description, questions and answers, or related training environment configurations, is fundamentally hard coded within the training activity. This implies that training organizers cannot easily adapt the content to match the actual circumstances of a given event, such as trainee background and level, or to add variation to the included tasks. Moreover, they cannot easily add new training content into the platform, for instance, in order to extend an existing activity so as to address emergent security issues, etc.
3.3.2.2 Training Environment AspectsAs for the second necessary feature—automatic creation and management of the training environment—it addresses the need for hands-on training activities that are organized and conducted in manner that is scalable and cost-effective.This ability aims to solve the other significant issue of many training programs, namely that the training environment is predominantly set up by experts, either via manual settings or by using custom or proprietary scripts and tools. This drawback impacts the scalability of the program, hence its ability to address a large audience, and also leads to poor cost/performance characteristics.
3.3.2.3 Content and Environment DependenciesWe note that the training content and the training environment are interdependent. This is because for an instructor to be able to add new training content, typically the training environment must be updated as well. This is also true in the opposite direction: when a training environment gets updated (e.g., via software package or operating system updates), the training content may need to be modified as well to match the characteristics of the training environment.Consequently, the facilitation and automation of both update tasks play a crucial role regarding the usability of a training platform. In Chap. 12, we will discuss the approach we have taken to address these requirements in practice when developing the integrated cybersecurity training framework CyTrONE.


3.4 Case Study: Hardening ProjectThere are many examples of cybersecurity training programs that target individual skills since most CTF competitions are included in this category. Therefore, in this section we will conduct a case study analysis from the perspective of the taxonomy discussed so far by focusing on a program that targets team and CSIRT skills, namely Hardening Project.3.4.1 Program OverviewHardening Project is a two-day training event organized by the Web Application Security (WAS) Forum in Japan starting from 2012 [12]. This training activity in the form of a cybersecurity competition is being held twice a year, and its main goal is to maximize the strength of the defensive cybersecurity techniques of its participants. This led to name of the event, since in the field of cybersecurity, the term hardening denotes the process of securing a system by reducing its vulnerability surface.3.4.1.1 Organization and InfrastructureThe attendees of Hardening Project are divided by the event organizers into several teams before the competition starts, typically based on their self-declared skills, as well as their previous experience with this competition (or lack thereof). This differs from regular CTF events in which the participants form their own teams in advance, and creates additional challenges in term of the soft skills the participants must put into use during the event.As for the training content, Hardening Project recreates a very realistic scenario, which could very easily be encountered in the real world. Thus, the participants are tasked with dealing with security incidents and patching vulnerabilities of a virtual e-commerce website created for the purpose of the event—all these being skills that are readily applicable to real-life situations. Those security incidents are caused by red teams composed of event staff members who try to exploit vulnerabilities that were planted on purpose when the training environment was created.The training environment built for the Hardening Project hands-on activities is an emulated network environment created on the large-scale network experiment testbed StarBED [9]. The emulated environment is realistic in terms of its composition and content, with more than a dozen servers (running as virtual machines on the physical StarBED hosts) allocated to each participant team. The architecture of each network environment mimics a typical e-commerce site in terms of server composition and network topology.
3.4.1.2 Hardening DayOn the first day of the event, called Hardening Day, the teams compete for approximately eight hours in terms of the security hardening they can provide for the virtual e-commerce website used in the event. The winning team is decided based on the total amount of virtual sales their website generated during the entire duration of the competition. Additional score tables are used to keep track of other aspects related to the training, such as the technical proficiency of the teams, in a manner similar to other competitions.Using the sales amount to decide the winner is the main factor distinguishing Hardening Project from other security events. Whereas many security events focus solely on accomplishing technical tasks, for the purpose of the Hardening Project competition, the sales amount is considered to be an objective and realistic measure of the overall effectiveness of the hardening activity of the participants. This teaches them that in a business context cybersecurity tasks must always be addressed while considering not only the direct result of an action, but also its consequences on business performance indicators.
3.4.1.3 Softening DayThe second day of the Hardening Project event is called Softening Day, and it is the education-oriented part of the competition. During this second day, the organizers provide feedback to participants regarding the previous day activities, so that they can fill in whatever knowledge and ability gaps they may have had. The winners of the competition are also announced on that day.While there is no hands-on practice on the second day of the event, the information provided helps participants understand the weaknesses of the strategies that they followed on the first day. It also teaches them about attack actions that took place in the training environment, the consequences of which they may have not even realized. Overall, it increases the motivation of the participants to apply their skills in their everyday activities and to attend next training events to further hone their cybersecurity skills.

3.4.2 Spin-Off ProgramsStarting in 2015, a shorter version of the training program, called MINI Hardening Project, was organized several times a year until 20211 [13]. This mini event had similar rules with the main training activity; however, in order to improve its accessibility, both its location and duration were modified. Thus, instead of the rather remote locations in Japan where most of the Hardening Project competitions are held, the mini event was held in Tokyo or other large cities. Moreover, the duration of the competition was also changed to be only three hours, which contributes to creating a more intense and focused event.Another spin-off event, called Micro-Hardening, is being conducted since 2018 [8]. This is a smaller-scale event that offers 45-min training sessions that are repeated three times. The attacks are fully automated during these sessions, and the participants are awarded points based on the number of attacks they could ward off. The entire experience, thus, benefits of gamification techniques in similar manner to CTF competitions; however, the participant tasks are defensive, not offensive, in this case. The training sessions are usually repeated several times, so that participants can have the opportunity to learn from their mistakes and improve their scores (and skills) in subsequent sessions.
3.4.3 Taxonomy-Based AnalysisIn Table 3.1, we summarize our analysis of the characteristics of the Hardening Project training program from the perspective of the training activity taxonomy presented in this chapter. Note that this analysis can also be considered as an example of how any other training program can be evaluated in terms of the features it provides, for example in view of deciding whether it is suitable (or valuable) to attend it.Table 3.1Analysis of the Hardening Project training program from the perspective of the training activity taxonomy presented in this chapterMain aspectDetailsCharacteristicsTraining purposeMain purposeDefense training via network hardeningAdditional purposeForensics training to augment the defense trainingTraining approachTarget skillsIndividual, team, CSIRTScenario typeE-commerce company network managementEnvironment typeVirtual network environment with dozens of hostsCostEvent supported by sponsors, free to attendOther featuresTarget participantsAnyone can attend: students, professionals, etc.Prerequisite abilityParticipants with any ability level acceptedBarriers to entryLow due to the lack of participation restrictionsTraining frequencyTwice a year (more if including the spin-off events)
Regarding training purpose, defense training is the main purpose of Hardening Project, and forensics is used to assist participants in understanding the attacks and devising defense methods. However, attack training is not included, the rationale for this being that the actual cybersecurity tasks of a professional have more to do with defense and forensics, than with attacks.As for the training approach, the team-based participation makes it possible to address all skills, from individual ones to CSIRT ones. The training scenario is a realistic e-commerce company network hardening scenario, with the company network being recreated via a virtual network environment with dozens of hosts per team. The event organization costs are supported by sponsors, making Hardening Project free to attend (aside from transportation and accommodation fees).Lastly, regarding the other features in the taxonomy, we note that anyone can attend this competition, and no prerequisite abilities are needed. Moreover, the barriers to entry are low given the free attendance and lack of restrictions on occupation and abilities. The twice a year frequency of the event, or even more if including the spin-off events, makes it also easy to attend.Given all of the above, we note how large is the coverage of Hardening Project in terms of the characteristics discussed in this chapter, including those shown in Fig. 3.
