# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2 - 2.2.2 Cybersecurity Awareness TrainingThe wide public of regular IT users, as well as those IT professionals who do not require security skills, are not in need of technical cybersecurity knowledge and skills. Instead, they must acquire basic knowledge about IT and security, which is sometimes called IT security literacy to emphasize its importance in the modern society. Such knowledge and skills enable IT users to handle correctly any cybersecurity issues they may encounter during their typical use of IT technology.Given how wide the public to which this type of education is addressed is, national governments have taken steps to ensure that such training takes place at the needed scale and with the necessary scope for it to be effective. For example, the U.S. Congress has introduced in 2021 the American Cybersecurity Literacy Act, which requires the administration to develop and conduct a cybersecurity literacy campaign with the goal of increasing the knowledge and awareness of the best practices needed to reduce cybersecurity risks [10].In this book, we will use the term cybersecurity awareness training to refer to that class of training activities that focus on providing the basic knowledge and abilities to medium-to-low skill level participants, such as regular IT users and those IT professionals that are not directly involved in security tasks. The goal of this type of training is to minimize the cybersecurity risks that the trainees will have to face during their daily life and work activities.Given the difference in training methodology and target learners compared to technical cybersecurity training, cybersecurity awareness training faces additional challenges in regard to training content creation and trainee motivation.2.2.2.1 Training Content CreationTypically, the content of cybersecurity awareness training courses is created manually by educators, who try to include materials about all the areas of knowledge that they consider the training should cover. The creation is, therefore, a time-consuming process that also leads to the possibility of having outdated content. This can happen, for example, due to the evolution of security concepts, the appearance of new security issues, and so on. In particular, the fact that manually created training content is potentially updated only rarely can become a serious issue in the quickly evolving field of cybersecurity.Automating the creation of training content is a potential solution for this issue. For example, Natural Language Generation (NLG) techniques could be employed to automatically generate the training content based on various knowledge bases, such as publicly available data from Wikipedia. Such automatic generation comes with several challenges about the quality of the generated training content. However, these challenges can be addressed by leveraging the recent advances in the NLG field, such as Large Language Models (LLMs).
Security Relevance Score: 8
Word Count: 1498
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

2.2.2 Cybersecurity Awareness TrainingThe wide public of regular IT users, as well as those IT professionals who do not require security skills, are not in need of technical cybersecurity knowledge and skills. Instead, they must acquire basic knowledge about IT and security, which is sometimes called IT security literacy to emphasize its importance in the modern society. Such knowledge and skills enable IT users to handle correctly any cybersecurity issues they may encounter during their typical use of IT technology.Given how wide the public to which this type of education is addressed is, national governments have taken steps to ensure that such training takes place at the needed scale and with the necessary scope for it to be effective. For example, the U.S. Congress has introduced in 2021 the American Cybersecurity Literacy Act, which requires the administration to develop and conduct a cybersecurity literacy campaign with the goal of increasing the knowledge and awareness of the best practices needed to reduce cybersecurity risks [10].In this book, we will use the term cybersecurity awareness training to refer to that class of training activities that focus on providing the basic knowledge and abilities to medium-to-low skill level participants, such as regular IT users and those IT professionals that are not directly involved in security tasks. The goal of this type of training is to minimize the cybersecurity risks that the trainees will have to face during their daily life and work activities.Given the difference in training methodology and target learners compared to technical cybersecurity training, cybersecurity awareness training faces additional challenges in regard to training content creation and trainee motivation.2.2.2.1 Training Content CreationTypically, the content of cybersecurity awareness training courses is created manually by educators, who try to include materials about all the areas of knowledge that they consider the training should cover. The creation is, therefore, a time-consuming process that also leads to the possibility of having outdated content. This can happen, for example, due to the evolution of security concepts, the appearance of new security issues, and so on. In particular, the fact that manually created training content is potentially updated only rarely can become a serious issue in the quickly evolving field of cybersecurity.Automating the creation of training content is a potential solution for this issue. For example, Natural Language Generation (NLG) techniques could be employed to automatically generate the training content based on various knowledge bases, such as publicly available data from Wikipedia. Such automatic generation comes with several challenges about the quality of the generated training content. However, these challenges can be addressed by leveraging the recent advances in the NLG field, such as Large Language Models (LLMs).
2.2.2.2 Trainee MotivationWe have mentioned already that trainee motivation issues can occur for technical cybersecurity training. However, regular IT users are typically even less motivated than technical personnel when conducting training. This is because cybersecurity awareness training courses can be perceived as an unnecessary burden added to the normal work tasks of the trainees, especially when taking the courses is mandated by their organization.Various approaches can be used to make the training activity more attractive and effective, and one such possibility is the serious game approach. Serious games are a type of games that incorporate pedagogic elements, and that are not intended to be played primarily for amusement purposes. Whereas the concept of serious games has been initially introduced in the context of role-playing in the 1970s [4], it has been since extended to computer games as well. By using the process called gamification to incorporate game elements into cybersecurity awareness training, it becomes possible to increase the motivation of the learners; improvements in the retention rate are also to be expected.Moreover, the automatic content generation mentioned above also makes it possible to create training content that is more attractive than the manually generated one. For example, game-like components, such as crossword puzzles, can be introduced into the training as an addition to or replacement of the typical quizzes that are used in IT literacy training. Consequently, automatic training content generation as well has the potential of making the overall cybersecurity awareness training process more enjoyable.More details about cybersecurity awareness training methodologies, including specific approaches for increasing trainee motivation, will be provided in Chap. 8, where a related case study will also be discussed.

2.2.3 Training Category ComparisonBefore proceeding to the in-depth discussion in subsequent chapters of the various aspects related to technical cybersecurity training and cybersecurity awareness training, we will compare here the fundamental properties of these two methodologies. Table 2.1 summarizes this comparison, which we conducted from several perspectives, as follows:Target audience: Who is the training addressed to?Training method: How is the training conducted?Main challenge: The most significant issue regarding that training category.
Table 2.1Comparison of technical cybersecurity training and cybersecurity awareness trainingFeatureTechnical trainingAwareness trainingTarget audienceSecurity experts, IT professionals with security involvementRegular IT users, IT professionals without security involvementTraining methodHands-on training that is conducted either on-site or onlineE-learning (with quizzes), video training, reading materials, etc.Main challengeCreate technical content suited for the participants to learn the target skillsEnsure that participants are motivated and can apply the knowledge in real life
2.2.3.1 Target AudienceRegarding the target audience of the two types of training, while security experts and regular IT users are the obvious targets for technical cybersecurity training and cybersecurity awareness training, respectively, IT professionals can benefit of both types of training, depending on what is the scope of their work.On the one hand, those IT professionals who are also involved with security issues, as it often happens in smaller companies, for example, should make sure to take technical cybersecurity training courses. On the other hand, those IT professionals who have no security involvement, as it may happen in larger companies, where the separation of professional roles is stronger, can limit themselves to taking cybersecurity awareness training courses only, even though they could also benefit from technical training.
2.2.3.2 Training MethodTechnical cybersecurity training focuses on teaching skills; hence, it is conducted via hands-on activities in which participants can exercise their existing skills and learn new ones via solving practical problems. These hands-on activities can be conducted on-site, in which case the educators and staff can be involved more closely in the training process, assisting the participants as needed. Alternatively, the hands-on activities can also be conducted online when the focus is more on self-learning via the tasks included in the training.Currently, cybersecurity awareness training is often conducted via e-learning methods that typically include quizzes to evaluate participants’ knowledge and to determine if they have achieved a passing score or need to repeat the training. However, video training or even just reading materials are also used sometimes, which was the initial manner in which cybersecurity awareness training was conducted. Moreover, such training methods are easier to manage and deliver. Nevertheless, this type of passive activities has a lower engagement of the participants and does not allow for evaluating their knowledge.
2.2.3.3 Main ChallengeEach training category has its own specific challenges that we will discuss in more detail in the following chapters. For the purpose of this comparison, however, we will focus on what we consider to be the main challenge instructors are faced with in each case.Thus, for the case of technical cybersecurity training, content creation is the biggest challenge from our point of view due to two main issues. First of all, the complexity of the technical training content hinders automation, and content creation itself is done manually by educators/instructors; hence, it is a tedious process that requires creators to master a significant amount of knowledge and skills. Furthermore, malware and security threats evolve rapidly, meaning that new content needs to be created relatively frequently in order to be able to train additional skills that are applicable to current security issues.As for cybersecurity awareness training, content creation typically requires simply writing explanation text and creating visual aids, hence no technical knowledge is required. This also means that content can be updated, if needed, with relatively less effort. Moreover, automated content generation techniques can be used to create and update the content with limited human intervention. However, while security experts are usually motivated to learn new skills, regular IT users often perceive awareness training as uninteresting, especially if it is a work-mandated type of training. Therefore, we consider that the main challenge in the case of cybersecurity awareness training is to create such training content and organize such training activities that keep the participants interested and motivated. In addition, the new knowledge that is gained via the training activity must be structured in such a manner that it is readily applicable to practical situations.


References1.Austin G (ed) (2020) Cyber security education: principles and policies. Routledge, LondonzbMATH
2.Beuran R, Chinen K, Tan Y, Shinoda Y (2016) Towards effective cybersecurity education and training. Tech. Rep. IS-RR-2016-003, Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
3.Creese S, Dutton WH, Esteve-González P (2021) The social and cultural shaping of cybersecurity capacity building: a comparative study of nations and regions. Pers Ubiq Comput 25(5):941–
