# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 3 - Similarly, the training environment description syntax and examples will be presented in Sect. 12.4.
Security Relevance Score: 8
Word Count: 871
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Similarly, the training environment description syntax and examples will be presented in Sect. 12.4.
12.2.1.5 CyLMSThe module named CyLMS serves as a control module for the LMS that in the architecture of CyTrONE plays the role of interface with the trainees [5], more specifically the Moodle LMS. The main functions of CyLMS are as follows:Register the training content in the LMS, so that trainees can access the tasks they were assigned for the training activity.Remove the training content from the LMS when the training activity ends.
Note that the SCORM format for e-learning content representation [1] is used in CyLMS for allowing it to seamlessly import training content into Moodle, without the need for Moodle-specific customizations. This makes it possible, in principle, to integrate CyLMS with a different LMS with only a minimal implementation effort.
12.2.1.6 Moodle LMSMoodle is one of the most widely used LMSs, with almost 50 million courses being currently available [10]. Consequently, many participants have already experienced using Moodle before conducting a training via CyTrONE, which facilitates their adaptation to the user interface. Due to these considerations, we have selected Moodle as training UI in CyTrONE, where it plays several roles:Make it possible for trainees to access the training content for any of the available training sessions.Allow trainees to submit answers for the challenges they solved, and check the correctness of their answers.Let instructors manage which trainees are allowed to access training activities and to check their training results.

12.2.1.7 CyPROMThe module called CyPROM enhances the functionality of CyTrONE via a feature named scenario progression. This feature makes it possible to orchestrate training activities in which the training environment is changing in a dynamic manner, making the training more realistic [2].The main function of CyPROM is to manage the scenario progression for each training environment instance independently, according to the actions of each trainee, and the ever-changing state of their environment. This function is achieved via three types of scenario elements:Triggers: Timers and signals that make it possible to trigger specific actions in a scenario after a time interval passed, or based on predefined events.Actions: Operations to be executed in a training environment; the actions can be related to the interaction with the trainees, such as displaying messages, hints, or questions, or can be related to security operations, such as conducting specific attacks in the target environment.Branching: Mechanism for taking decisions regarding which scenario action should be executed next based on the outcome of the previous action.
Most CyPROM actions are executed directly in the cyber range, as needed in order to dynamically change the state of the environment depending on the current place in the predefined training scenario. However, those elements that are related to the interaction with trainees can also be displayed via the LMS interface.
12.2.1.8 CyRISCyRIS is a key component of the CyTrONE framework, being in charge of automatically creating cyber ranges based on specific descriptions [3]. The cyber range creation process is composed of the following three stages: 1.Base VM preparation: This refers to preparing virtual machine (VM) images made available in advance so that they are ready for the next stage. For this purpose, the disk images are first copied into the working directory, and the corresponding VMs are started. Then, the basic setup of the VMs is conducted, such as configuring access via SSH and setting up the hostname and network interfaces. 2.Content installation: This stage sets up the content of the cyber range VMs according to the cyber range description file via two types of processes: a.Environment setup operations: Managing user accounts, installing any specified software, copying any required files, executing programs or scripts as needed for custom setup, configuring the network settings, etc. b.Security-related operations: Configuring the firewall, starting emulated malware, executing emulated cyberattack actions, capturing network traffic, etc. 
 3.Guest VM cloning: The final stage consists in creating clones of the prepared VMs in order to start multiple instances of the same cyber range environment for multiple trainees or teams of trainees. This is done by copying first the configured base images to all the servers on which the cyber range is to be instantiated. The cloned VM instances are then started, and user accounts and passwords for accessing each cyber range instance are set up. In addition, the subnets made of cloned VMs are configured according to the cyber range description. 

12.2.1.9 Cyber RangeThe cyber range shown in Fig. 12.1 denotes the training environment in which the training activity takes place. When using CyTrONE, one cyber range instance is created for each participant or team by using CyRIS, as discussed above. The number of instances to be created is decided by the instructor when starting the training activity, and the actual composition of each instance is based on the cyber range description file that CyRIS receives as input.The main technology used to create the cyber range is the open-source virtualization technology built into the Linux kernel named Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM). However, we have also implemented the necessary support to make it possible to deploy cyber ranges in the Amazon AWS EC2 cloud [7]. The available cyber range features, as well as the associated cyber range description format will be discussed in more detail in Sect. 12.
