# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - The model includes several components that make up the platform, as well as two kinds of actors, as it will be discussed next.Diagram illustrating a training management system. An instructor accesses a portal, which connects to a training manager. The training manager interacts with data storage and a training environment. Trainees use a separate portal linked to education functions and the training environment. Monitoring is connected to the training environment, and training content feeds into data storage. Arrows indicate the flow of information between components.Fig. 9.1Generic cybersecurity training platform model
Security Relevance Score: 4
Word Count: 874
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

The model includes several components that make up the platform, as well as two kinds of actors, as it will be discussed next.Diagram illustrating a training management system. An instructor accesses a portal, which connects to a training manager. The training manager interacts with data storage and a training environment. Trainees use a separate portal linked to education functions and the training environment. Monitoring is connected to the training environment, and training content feeds into data storage. Arrows indicate the flow of information between components.Fig. 9.1Generic cybersecurity training platform model
9.1.1.1 Model ComponentsThe platform components in our model can be grouped into two classes, according to their main characteristics, as follows:Core components.Support components.Core Components The core components are those modules of the training platform that are used for the actual training activities. This includes the Training Manager for managing the training by interacting with the Data Storage and the Training Content stored within, as well as the Training Environment in which trainees can do hands-on practice. The core components are essential in a training platform, as without them no training activity can be conducted. Therefore, all training platforms must include them, at least conceptually, from the point of view of their functionality.Support Components The support components are those modules of the training platform that provide various usability features in order to support the training activities. This includes the Portal used to interact with the training platform, Education Functions used to support the learning process, and Monitoring for keeping track of the state of the training environment. Basically, the support components are used to facilitate the training activity, such as allowing instructors and participants to more easily interact with or manage the platform. They are, however, not critical for the training activity, and simpler training platforms may omit them. While this omission does not affect the core functionality of the platform, it does reduce its usability.
9.1.1.2 Model ActorsWhile not components or modules of the training platform per se, we need to discuss the specificities of those who interact with the training platform, which we refer to generically as actors. Specifically, the two types of actors that we consider are:Instructors.Trainees.
So far we have employed these concepts by relying on the commonly used meaning of the terms, but we will define them more precisely here in order to be able to discuss their interactions with the training platform in the following sections.Instructors Instructors are those users of a cybersecurity training platform who are in charge of coordinating the training activity. They can be, for instance, faculty members and other academic staff in case the training takes place in a university.Instructors have enough privileges to perform all the management tasks related to the training activity, such as starting a training session, collecting data regarding the actions of the trainees, scoring them, etc.Trainees Trainees are those users of a cybersecurity training platform who actually take part in the training activity. Such participants can be, for instance, university students if the training takes place in an academic environment.Trainees have privileges related to accessing the information about the training activity that they are to perform (e.g., questions, tasks, etc.), and the training environment that they must use to solve those questions/tasks. In addition, they are able to access their own scores, and potentially other forms of detailed feedback about their training performance.
9.1.1.3 DiscussionThe cybersecurity training platform model discussed so far is a simple model that has the benefit of being at the same time powerful and generic, as it can be applied to a multitude of training platforms. More detailed models, such as the architecture presented in [13], have a higher granularity, but fail to describe the interactions between components. Moreover, they may include very specialized components, such as those used for testing the functionality of the platform, which we consider having less of a generic nature compared to the modules we defined.Another important point is that many training platforms typically implement their functionality as separate standalone components that can be mapped directly to those in our model, thus ensuring the highest clarity and flexibility of the design. However, some platforms may aggregate the functionality of two or more components into a single module. A very basic example of this type of aggregation is the case when the training content is hard coded into the training environment. In some implementations the education features could also be included in the Portal component, for example. Other implementations could even replace some functionality with manual operation, such as using scripts to manually execute the training activity instead of relying on a standalone Training Manager module.As far as actors are concerned, in some training platforms there is an even finer role separation. For example, administrators could be technical personnel that manages the training platform, for example, by setting up the deployment servers, or installing new training content, but without having any role in coordinating the training activities or the education process. In our model these tasks are included in the Instructor persona for simplicity, and also to reflect the fact that such fine role separation is only present for very large training platforms.Next we will present in more detail each of components of the cybersecurity training platform model introduced in Fig. 9.
