# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 20 - The "Maximum" dataset forms an outer boundary, while "CyTrONE" is represented by a shaded area within, indicating lower values across most axes. The chart highlights differences in performance or capability between the two datasets.Fig. 13.5Training activity facilitation capability assessment of CyTrONE
The first group of criteria, AF-1 through AF-6, are related to pretraining setup capabilities. The capability level of CyTrONE is not very high in this respect, with only one criterion being assigned the maximum value, AF-6, which is related to the degree of instructor assistance needed by trainees.For the training execution capabilities, AF-7 through AF-18, the evaluation is relatively similar in general. There is one criterion, however, for which the capability level is 0, namely AF-10; this is because CyTrONE lacks cheating prevention and detection features in the current release (although some research has already been done in this respect). On the positive side, the assessment yielded maximum values for criteria AF-11, AF-12, and AF-13, which are related to host access manner and experience, including support for accessing in-use hosts by instructors.The last group of criteria refers to post-training assessment capabilities, namely AF-19 and AF-20. The capability level of CyTrONE is average from this perspective, with Level 1 rating for both of them, for a maximum Level 2 capability.
Security Relevance Score: 2
Word Count: 322
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

The "Maximum" dataset forms an outer boundary, while "CyTrONE" is represented by a shaded area within, indicating lower values across most axes. The chart highlights differences in performance or capability between the two datasets.Fig. 13.5Training activity facilitation capability assessment of CyTrONE
The first group of criteria, AF-1 through AF-6, are related to pretraining setup capabilities. The capability level of CyTrONE is not very high in this respect, with only one criterion being assigned the maximum value, AF-6, which is related to the degree of instructor assistance needed by trainees.For the training execution capabilities, AF-7 through AF-18, the evaluation is relatively similar in general. There is one criterion, however, for which the capability level is 0, namely AF-10; this is because CyTrONE lacks cheating prevention and detection features in the current release (although some research has already been done in this respect). On the positive side, the assessment yielded maximum values for criteria AF-11, AF-12, and AF-13, which are related to host access manner and experience, including support for accessing in-use hosts by instructors.The last group of criteria refers to post-training assessment capabilities, namely AF-19 and AF-20. The capability level of CyTrONE is average from this perspective, with Level 1 rating for both of them, for a maximum Level 2 capability.

13.4 Capability Assessment ApplicationsThere are several manners in which the capability assessment results for a given cybersecurity training platform can be used, with the main two cases being: 1.Assess the target training platform to determine how good it is with regard to the capability categories that were defined in the assessment methodology. 2.Compare two or more training platforms by examining the differences in their capabilities to decide which platform is more suitable for a given purpose.
 
In what follows, we will discuss how the results of the capability assessment can be used in practice for the above goals by considering the perspectives of the three types of stakeholders defined in Sect. 13.1.
