# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 4 - Again, the maximum values for each criterion are shown with a lighter color.A radar chart comparing two datasets, "Maximum" and "CyTOFONE," across 13 metrics labeled EM-1 to EM-13. The "Maximum" dataset is represented by a dark gray line, while "CyTOFONE" is shown with a light gray shaded area. The chart highlights differences in performance across the metrics, with notable variations at EM-2, EM-5, and EM-10.Fig. 13.4Network environment management capability assessment of CyTrONE
With regard to the criteria related to functionality, EM-1 through EM-5, we remark an overall satisfactory level. Noteworthy are criteria EM-1 and EM-4, for which maximum scores were assigned, as they are related to the support of environment creation for parallel training activities, and for network attack execution, which are important functions of a training platform. One aspect that is not at all supported in CyTrONE, however, is background traffic generation, as illustrated by the Level 0 score for criterion EM-5.Criteria EM-6 through EM-8 refer to performance characteristics, and CyTrONE scored maximum capability levels for all of them. The same can be said for criteria EM-9 through EM-13, which are related to usability. This brings the general capability of the CyTrONE framework to a relatively high level from a network environment management perspective.
Security Relevance Score: 2
Word Count: 260
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Again, the maximum values for each criterion are shown with a lighter color.A radar chart comparing two datasets, "Maximum" and "CyTOFONE," across 13 metrics labeled EM-1 to EM-13. The "Maximum" dataset is represented by a dark gray line, while "CyTOFONE" is shown with a light gray shaded area. The chart highlights differences in performance across the metrics, with notable variations at EM-2, EM-5, and EM-10.Fig. 13.4Network environment management capability assessment of CyTrONE
With regard to the criteria related to functionality, EM-1 through EM-5, we remark an overall satisfactory level. Noteworthy are criteria EM-1 and EM-4, for which maximum scores were assigned, as they are related to the support of environment creation for parallel training activities, and for network attack execution, which are important functions of a training platform. One aspect that is not at all supported in CyTrONE, however, is background traffic generation, as illustrated by the Level 0 score for criterion EM-5.Criteria EM-6 through EM-8 refer to performance characteristics, and CyTrONE scored maximum capability levels for all of them. The same can be said for criteria EM-9 through EM-13, which are related to usability. This brings the general capability of the CyTrONE framework to a relatively high level from a network environment management perspective.
13.3.3 Training Activity FacilitationFor the third category of capability assessment criteria, training activity facilitation category, we plotted the results of the assessment in radar chart form in Fig. 13.5, with the maximum values for each criterion represented with a lighter color.Radar chart comparing two datasets, "Maximum" and "CyTrONE," across 20 axes labeled AF-1 to AF-
