# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 6 - 2.2.1.2 Target System CharacteristicsTechnical cybersecurity training is usually conducted in relation with typical computer networks. In this case, the creation of the appropriate training environments is relatively straightforward in terms of the technologies to be used.However, the advent of the Internet of Things (IoT) has led to a significant rise in security incidents related to IoT networks and technologies. Given that IoT devices and protocols have different characteristics compared to regular computers and network protocols, such as lack of displays, lower processing capabilities, and simplified features, creating an IoT security training platform poses different challenges. Consequently, such platforms need to consider the specificities of IoT systems, and new training methodologies and content must be developed.Given the many issues related to IoT security training and the importance of the topic in the wider field of technical cybersecurity training, we will discuss in detail the methodologies for IoT security training in Chap. 7.
Security Relevance Score: 4
Word Count: 432
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

2.2.1.2 Target System CharacteristicsTechnical cybersecurity training is usually conducted in relation with typical computer networks. In this case, the creation of the appropriate training environments is relatively straightforward in terms of the technologies to be used.However, the advent of the Internet of Things (IoT) has led to a significant rise in security incidents related to IoT networks and technologies. Given that IoT devices and protocols have different characteristics compared to regular computers and network protocols, such as lack of displays, lower processing capabilities, and simplified features, creating an IoT security training platform poses different challenges. Consequently, such platforms need to consider the specificities of IoT systems, and new training methodologies and content must be developed.Given the many issues related to IoT security training and the importance of the topic in the wider field of technical cybersecurity training, we will discuss in detail the methodologies for IoT security training in Chap. 7.
2.2.1.3 Trainee MotivationGiven that the target of technical cybersecurity training are mainly IT professionals who want to improve their skills, it is assumed, in general, that they are highly motivated to take part in the training activity. Consequently, instructors create the training content by focusing on the technical elements that are required to help participants acquire the desired skills.However, not all trainees are equally motivated, and participants to some technical cybersecurity training programs can be young people who have just started taking an interest in cybersecurity. Therefore, in order to increase the motivation of such trainees, educators may create training content that balances the technical elements with other elements that will make it more fun to take part in the training activity. This is because motivated trainees are more willing to actively participate in the training, and also to return for future training activities.A typical example in this context is the case of Capture The Flag (CTF) competitions. In CTFs, the technical aspects are split into small, focused tasks, and score tables and badges are introduced to keep the participants interested and motivated. The CTF type of training was popularized by the annual DEF CON cybersecurity conference, where it was first introduced in 1996 [5], but CTF events are currently being held in most countries and for a wide range of participants, including starting at elementary school level in some cases.It is, therefore, obvious that the way in which the training content for technical cybersecurity training is created and how it is presented plays an important role in increasing trainee motivation. The various challenges regarding content creation will be discussed in more detail in Chap. 9, in particular in Sect. 9.​
