# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2 - The table is organized in four sections, corresponding to the categories of ranges we presented, namely IoT, ICS/SCADA, critical infrastructure, as well as IoMT and healthcare cyber ranges. The following analysis criteria will be considered:Focus: The main focus of the training activities on a cyber range:Research and education: Research regarding cyber ranges, as well as their use for education and training.Commercial: Training is provided as a service by a commercial company.Education: Education and training for various types of participants.
Scenario: The main type of training scenario that a cyber range targets.Device type: The type of devices and other components of a cyber range:Simulated: Logical models are used to represent the devices.Emulated: Software implementations of real devices are used.Real: Actual physical devices are employed.Physical models: Real devices set up in the form of miniature physical models are utilized.
Distinctive features: Characteristics that mostly distinguish a cyber range with respect to other cyber ranges.
Security Relevance Score: 6
Word Count: 878
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

The table is organized in four sections, corresponding to the categories of ranges we presented, namely IoT, ICS/SCADA, critical infrastructure, as well as IoMT and healthcare cyber ranges. The following analysis criteria will be considered:Focus: The main focus of the training activities on a cyber range:Research and education: Research regarding cyber ranges, as well as their use for education and training.Commercial: Training is provided as a service by a commercial company.Education: Education and training for various types of participants.
Scenario: The main type of training scenario that a cyber range targets.Device type: The type of devices and other components of a cyber range:Simulated: Logical models are used to represent the devices.Emulated: Software implementations of real devices are used.Real: Actual physical devices are employed.Physical models: Real devices set up in the form of miniature physical models are utilized.
Distinctive features: Characteristics that mostly distinguish a cyber range with respect to other cyber ranges.
11.3.5.1 IoT Cyber RangesTypical IoT devices are mainly targeted to end users, which are the consumers; hence, they are less used in commercial settings. This explains, perhaps, why the IoT cyber ranges that we were able to identify originate all from an academic environment; hence, they were mainly developed for research and education purposes. Possibly as a consequence, the cyber ranges we presented do not appear to be in use for actual training activities. Moreover, the present status of some of the described projects is relatively hard to ascertain.The training scenarios for several of the cyber ranges in this category are related to general IoT uses, such as Wireless Sensor Networks in the case of IoTrain-Lab and IoTrain-Sim. However, other domains are also covered, such as edge IoT for Leaf, and 5G networks for SPIDER.Since creating training environments for such heterogeneous scenarios is difficult, most cyber ranges use either simulated or emulated IoT devices. For simulation, some cyber ranges rely on the Cooja IoT network simulator, and one of them, Leaf, on OMNET++. For emulation purposes, virtualization techniques, as well as software implementations of the IoT functionality are employed.In the case of IoT-CR, however, interfacing with real IoT devices is also supported. Another special case is represented by IoTrain-Lab, which leverages an IoT testbed, FIT IoT-LAB, to make possible training with a wide variety of real IoT devices.Among the presented cyber ranges, IoTrain-Lab and IoTrain-Sim are remarkable for the fact that their source code is publicly available. Hence, interested organizations can deploy them on their own server infrastructure and even extend their functionality if necessary. Moreover, both of them include a set of training scenarios, both for fundamental and security training, that makes them readily usable in comparison with the other systems.A specific feature of SPIDER, which we have not encountered for other cyber ranges, is that it leverages machine learning techniques to provide network traffic generation capabilities. By mimicking both cyberattack and normal traffic to create realistic training conditions, SPIDER makes it possible to conduct both cybersecurity risk assessments of 5G networks, as well as cybersecurity training for defending 5G networks from cyberattacks.
11.3.5.2 ICS/SCADA Cyber RangesAmong the cyber ranges that are dedicated to ICS and/or SCADA-related cybersecurity training, some are from the private sector, such as ICS NetWars, others from government organizations, such as ICSCoE, and some even from the academia, such as KYPO4INDUSTRY. This illustrates the wide variety of needs that must be addressed when conducting training in this domain.All the cyber ranges we presented in the ICS/SCADA category use factory operation as training scenario, which is the most typical scenario for this domain. Emulation techniques are generally used to recreate the factory setting, but for ICSCoE and KYPO4INDUSTRY this is combined with physical models of the system that include real human-machine interfaces, as well as sensor and actuation devices. This considerably improves the realism of the training, as participants are able to experience directly the effects of their actions.As a commercial system, ICS NetWars includes a wide variety of training topics, such as asset discovery and infrastructure mapping, detection of ICS-specific malware, and use of engineering applications. ICSCoE also includes various practical exercises ranging from basic to advanced, with the basic exercises providing introductory knowledge on all topics, and the advanced exercises providing more practical training on specific elective topics selected by participants. As for KYPO4INDUSTRY, the cyber range is used for a full ICS cybersecurity course taught at the academic institution where it was developed.Another distinctive feature of ICSCoE is that it uses realistic process control networks that are built using actual network equipment for an increased realism of the training. In KYPO4INDUSTRY, on the other hand, a strong emphasis was laid on the use of open-source hardware and software, so that the cyber range setup can be replicated at other institutions.We note that, as we have mentioned already, several of the general-purpose cyber ranges support ICS/SCADA training as well. This makes us conclude that following general cybersecurity training, ICS/SCADA-related training is next in terms of importance from an overall perspective.
11.3.5.3 Critical Infrastructure Cyber RangesTwo of the examples of critical infrastructure cyber ranges that we presented target power grid cybersecurity training. The power grid is also a training scenario included in several other cyber ranges that provide critical infrastructure training support, as mentioned when discussing this topic in Sect. 11.3.
