# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 4 - 12.2.2 Training Platform Model MappingBy comparing the architecture of CyTrONE shown in Fig. 12.1 with the generic training platform model presented in Fig. 9.​1, it is relatively easy to draw a parallel between the two. The details of this mapping, which will be discussed below, demonstrate that the training platform model that we introduced in Chap. 9 is indeed a useful tool for analyzing the architecture of any specific training platform, and for understanding how its functionality maps onto the model in order to better ascertain the role of its components.12.2.2.1 Model Mapping DetailsIn what follows, we will present in detail the result of the training platform model mapping for the case of CyTrONE. For each of the model components defined in Sect. 9.​1.​2, the module or modules that correspond to it in the CyTrONE architecture that was introduced in Sect. 12.2.1 will be indicated, with their names emphasized as bold text for clarity. Similarly to what we did when defining the training platform model, we will distinguish between the core components of the model and the support ones.Core Components The mapping of the core components of the training platform model with respect to the corresponding CyTrONE modules is as follows:Training Manager: Overall management functionality is handled by the CyTrONE module of the framework, with support from the CyLMS, CyPROM, and CyRIS modules for specific functions.Data Storage: This model component is equivalent to the Training Database element in CyTrONE.Training Content: This model component corresponds to the homonymous Training Content element in CyTrONE.Training Environment: This model component is equivalent to the Cyber Range element in CyTrONE.Support Components As for the support components of the training platform model, their mapping to CyTrONE components is presented below:Portal: This functionality is split in CyTrONE between the Web UI for instructors to manage the training activity, and the Moodle LMS component for trainees to conduct the training, and instructors to check their progress.Education Functions: This functionality is entirely delegated to the Moodle LMS component of the framework.Monitoring: The equivalent of this functionality is handled by the CyPROM module in CyTrONE.
Security Relevance Score: 3
Word Count: 728
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

12.2.2 Training Platform Model MappingBy comparing the architecture of CyTrONE shown in Fig. 12.1 with the generic training platform model presented in Fig. 9.​1, it is relatively easy to draw a parallel between the two. The details of this mapping, which will be discussed below, demonstrate that the training platform model that we introduced in Chap. 9 is indeed a useful tool for analyzing the architecture of any specific training platform, and for understanding how its functionality maps onto the model in order to better ascertain the role of its components.12.2.2.1 Model Mapping DetailsIn what follows, we will present in detail the result of the training platform model mapping for the case of CyTrONE. For each of the model components defined in Sect. 9.​1.​2, the module or modules that correspond to it in the CyTrONE architecture that was introduced in Sect. 12.2.1 will be indicated, with their names emphasized as bold text for clarity. Similarly to what we did when defining the training platform model, we will distinguish between the core components of the model and the support ones.Core Components The mapping of the core components of the training platform model with respect to the corresponding CyTrONE modules is as follows:Training Manager: Overall management functionality is handled by the CyTrONE module of the framework, with support from the CyLMS, CyPROM, and CyRIS modules for specific functions.Data Storage: This model component is equivalent to the Training Database element in CyTrONE.Training Content: This model component corresponds to the homonymous Training Content element in CyTrONE.Training Environment: This model component is equivalent to the Cyber Range element in CyTrONE.Support Components As for the support components of the training platform model, their mapping to CyTrONE components is presented below:Portal: This functionality is split in CyTrONE between the Web UI for instructors to manage the training activity, and the Moodle LMS component for trainees to conduct the training, and instructors to check their progress.Education Functions: This functionality is entirely delegated to the Moodle LMS component of the framework.Monitoring: The equivalent of this functionality is handled by the CyPROM module in CyTrONE.

12.2.2.2 Design Decision InsightsThe model mapping that we conducted above helped emphasize two specific design decisions in CyTrONE whose significance we will discuss next. This is another role that training platform model mapping can play, as the insights gained illustrate the thought process behind a given platform design. These insights can also assist with decisions regarding the implementation of a new training platform, or with respect to planned extensions of an existing one.Modular Architecture The training management functionality in CyTrONE is split between several modules, in accordance with the modular architecture paradigm of the framework that we mentioned previously. This makes it possible to separate the framework module functionality in order to make the source code easier to understand and facilitate extensions when needed.However, the CyTrONE modules are not just logical components, they are actually standalone modules that can also be used independently. For example, it is possible to use CyRIS to create a cyber range environment, while using completely different components as Portal and Education Functions, or even completely omitting those components for a leaner execution, depending on the organizer requirements. The implications of the modular architecture of CyTrONE will be discussed in more detail in Sect. 12.5.1.Moodle LMS Reliance As indicated in the above mapping, Moodle LMS is used both as Portal in CyTrONE, mainly with regard to trainees, as well as for the Education Functions aspect. The main advantage of this decision is that CyTrONE can leverage the wide variety of capabilities of Moodle, with the only development effort being related to the implementation of the communication between the framework and the LMS. Moreover, since Moodle is very well known, many trainees are already accustomed to it; hence, the amount of effort required to get used to the CyTrONE UI is minimal in many cases.On the other hand, not having a fully custom solution may limit sometimes the decisions regarding user interface aspects. If a desired feature is not already provided, it can only be added by modifying the source code of Moodle, which is a relatively complex task (however, not impossible, given the open-source nature of Moodle). Nevertheless, we consider that the advantages outlined above surpass these issues for most circumstances related to cybersecurity training. The implications of the reliance on Moodle LMS will be detailed in Sect. 12.5.
