# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2 - This is because this CSF-based methodology also takes a top-down view on defense. However, a complete defense process needs to consider the overall perspective of an organization, not only a technical defense point of view. Consequently, trainees should keep in mind this generic methodology for a comprehensive overview of all the defense-related activities and refer as needed to D3FEND tactics for technical details.6.2.2.1 GovernThe initial factors to consider regarding the defense of an organization are the overall governing aspects regarding risk management. Although this function is not technically oriented, it is essential for several cybersecurity work roles, such as Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) or cybersecurity risk manager. Therefore, trainees who aim to work in such roles should learn how to address the following issues in relation with an organization:How to determine the context (mission, expectations, requirements, etc.) surrounding the cybersecurity risk management decisions?How to formulate the strategy (priorities, constraints, assumptions, etc.) regarding risk management, and how to use it to support the decision process?How to establish and communicate the relevant roles, responsibilities, and authorities regarding cybersecurity?How to establish, communicate and enforce the cybersecurity policy?How to leverage the oversight of risk management activities to continuously improve the risk management strategy?How to establish and monitor the supply chain risk management processes?
Security Relevance Score: 10
Word Count: 589
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

This is because this CSF-based methodology also takes a top-down view on defense. However, a complete defense process needs to consider the overall perspective of an organization, not only a technical defense point of view. Consequently, trainees should keep in mind this generic methodology for a comprehensive overview of all the defense-related activities and refer as needed to D3FEND tactics for technical details.6.2.2.1 GovernThe initial factors to consider regarding the defense of an organization are the overall governing aspects regarding risk management. Although this function is not technically oriented, it is essential for several cybersecurity work roles, such as Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) or cybersecurity risk manager. Therefore, trainees who aim to work in such roles should learn how to address the following issues in relation with an organization:How to determine the context (mission, expectations, requirements, etc.) surrounding the cybersecurity risk management decisions?How to formulate the strategy (priorities, constraints, assumptions, etc.) regarding risk management, and how to use it to support the decision process?How to establish and communicate the relevant roles, responsibilities, and authorities regarding cybersecurity?How to establish, communicate and enforce the cybersecurity policy?How to leverage the oversight of risk management activities to continuously improve the risk management strategy?How to establish and monitor the supply chain risk management processes?

6.2.2.2 IdentifyFrom an operational perspective, the first step in defining the risk management is to understand what the current cybersecurity risks in an organization are. This requires trainees to master a series of techniques, as follows:How to identify and manage the organization assets (data, systems, services, etc.) in accordance with the organization objectives and risk strategy?How to assess the risks regarding the organization, its assets and individuals from all the relevant perspectives (vulnerabilities, threats, etc.)?How to formulate improvements to the risk management processes, procedures and activities based on evaluation, testing, activity oversight, etc?

6.2.2.3 ProtectOnce the cybersecurity risks regarding an organization are identified, the next step is to put in place the necessary safeguards for managing those risks. This requires considering a wide variety of aspects, such as:How to manage identities and credentials, as well as authentication and access control mechanisms?How to provide cybersecurity awareness and training to personnel, depending on their roles and tasks?How to manage data security consistent with the organization’s risk strategy for all the possible data states: data-at-rest, data-in-transit, and data-in-use?How to manage platform security (hardware, software, services, etc.) consistent with the organization’s risk strategy?How to ensure the resilience of the technology infrastructure in the event of threats and adverse situations?
The actual tasks to be conducted in relation with this outcome are more technical in nature, and trainees can refer to the Informative References and Implementation Examples provided alongside CSF (see Sect. 6.3.2.1) for more practical information. Moreover, trainees should also leverage the techniques learned during fundamental defense training for this purpose.
6.2.2.4 DetectAll the goals discussed so far regarded mainly the defense preparation of the organization. However, pro-active measures must be taken in order to find and analyze potential cybersecurity attacks and compromises. These tasks too are relatively technical in nature, and they address the following issues:How to monitor the organization assets (networks, physical environment, personnel, etc.) continuously so as to identify any anomalies, indicators of compromise, and adverse events?How to analyze the identified anomalies, indicators of compromise, and adverse events to characterize them and detect possible cybersecurity incidents?
We note that from a technical perspective several tasks in this category, especially those concerning event analysis, are closely related to the digital forensics skills discussed in connection with forensics training in Sect. 5.​2.​1.​
