# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 3 - However, for some types of non-technical content as well, hands-on experience can be essential. Thus, placing the learners in realistic cybersecurity situations makes it possible for them to put their security awareness knowledge into practice, and improve the corresponding non-technical cybersecurity skills.Such type of interaction is outside the scope of e-learning methodology, in which interaction only take place in relation with the training content itself. In this context, the key technique for making it possible for learners to put their knowledge into practice is to ask them to make decisions regarding cybersecurity issues by simulating the occurrence of those issues.One of the most common types of cybersecurity issues IT users are confronted with on a regular basis is that of being able to distinguish malicious content, for instance when delivered via phishing emails. This is why one of the most common type of simulation-based cybersecurity awareness training is the phishing simulation, as it will be illustrated next via some examples.8.2.4.1 SecureClick Phishing SimulationSecureClick is a company that provides employee cyber awareness training by using e-learning methodology to deliver training content on a regular basis, and the training content also comprises tests of knowledge retention. However, one differentiating factor of this training program compared to regular e-learning programs is the phishing simulation service that is included [14].According to the company, the SecureClick phishing simulation service has several characteristics aimed at improving its effectiveness:The phishing content is realistic, being designed based on real-life attacks on IT users that were identified in the past.The phishing simulation campaigns are conducted regularly, typically being delivered bi-monthly or monthly.The phishing content is tailored to employees according to their department or job role; for example, finance and sales department employees would receive finance and sales themed emails, respectively.Detailed reporting is available to make possible for organizations to identify their most susceptible users, and to determine their cybersecurity posture improvements over time.
Security Relevance Score: 19
Word Count: 2916
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

However, for some types of non-technical content as well, hands-on experience can be essential. Thus, placing the learners in realistic cybersecurity situations makes it possible for them to put their security awareness knowledge into practice, and improve the corresponding non-technical cybersecurity skills.Such type of interaction is outside the scope of e-learning methodology, in which interaction only take place in relation with the training content itself. In this context, the key technique for making it possible for learners to put their knowledge into practice is to ask them to make decisions regarding cybersecurity issues by simulating the occurrence of those issues.One of the most common types of cybersecurity issues IT users are confronted with on a regular basis is that of being able to distinguish malicious content, for instance when delivered via phishing emails. This is why one of the most common type of simulation-based cybersecurity awareness training is the phishing simulation, as it will be illustrated next via some examples.8.2.4.1 SecureClick Phishing SimulationSecureClick is a company that provides employee cyber awareness training by using e-learning methodology to deliver training content on a regular basis, and the training content also comprises tests of knowledge retention. However, one differentiating factor of this training program compared to regular e-learning programs is the phishing simulation service that is included [14].According to the company, the SecureClick phishing simulation service has several characteristics aimed at improving its effectiveness:The phishing content is realistic, being designed based on real-life attacks on IT users that were identified in the past.The phishing simulation campaigns are conducted regularly, typically being delivered bi-monthly or monthly.The phishing content is tailored to employees according to their department or job role; for example, finance and sales department employees would receive finance and sales themed emails, respectively.Detailed reporting is available to make possible for organizations to identify their most susceptible users, and to determine their cybersecurity posture improvements over time.

8.2.4.2 Infosec IQ Phishing SimulationInfosec is a company dedicated to cybersecurity training, and among their offers is included a security awareness training program named Infosec IQ [8]. One important component of this training program is the phishing simulation service that is being offered in addition to the typical e-learning materials.The Infosec IQ phishing simulation is conducted using a set of phishing templates that reproduce in practice the topics and attacks covered in the training materials. Phishing simulations are conducted quarterly, and the module makes it possible to assess the rate of success for phishing campaigns, as well as train the phished learners automatically.

8.2.5 GamificationAs mentioned already, the target of cybersecurity awareness training programs are regular IT users that typically lack the motivation to learn concepts that may appear complicated and difficult to master. The fact that such training is mandated by the organizations they belong to also contributes to the lower motivation of the learners, who do not take the training by their own choice.Gamification refers to the use of game-like features in education in order to better engage and motivate the learners. This concept can, of course, be applied to the field of cybersecurity awareness training, and we distinguish two main classes of gamification features, basic and advanced, as it will be discussed next.8.2.5.1 Basic Gamification FeaturesOne of the most basic types of gamification features are rewards, such as stars and badges, that are provided to learners as indicators of their progress through a course, for example upon the completion of a module. The visual appearance of those rewards, and other factors, such as the possibility to display them publicly (e.g., on websites), represent the main point of their appeal. Some of the e-learning systems, such as Learning Management Systems (LMS), include this kind of gamification features, for example, by including built-in features related to badges. Moodle [12], which is one of the most widely used LMS, for instance, makes it possible for instructors to add course badges and set the criteria for awarding them. Then, the badges are awarded automatically to learners based on their actions in the system, such as course or activity completion. An example of this approach is represented by the research in [18], where such techniques are used to create a gamification-based cybersecurity awareness course for self-regulated learning within Moodle.Another basic gamification feature is based on points (or score) that are awarded as the trainees solve the tasks included in the training. In contrast with badges, scores can be used to demonstrate not only the progress, but also the proficiency of the learners. In this case the trainees may be able to track their ranking via leader boards and compare themselves with their peers. Therefore, the main appeal of this type of feature is related to the sentiment of positive rivalry that it inspires. The Moodle LMS mentioned above, for instance, supports a plugin named Level Up XP that makes it possible for learners to receive experience points (XP) based on their actions, and compete with each other via a leader board, with the goal of providing a stimulating learning experience [11].The basic gamification features, such as badges and score, discussed so far are relatively easy to implement in a training program interface. However, their effectiveness is not very high, as these basic features are not enough to make the learning experience similar to that of a good game [15].
8.2.5.2 Advanced Gamification FeaturesIn order to further improve the learning experience, more advanced game design elements are required. For example, features such as story telling that help engage the trainees more deeply and emotionally, are considered very effective in creating aspects of “collateral learning”, through which learners are able to gain knowledge in spite of themselves [15].To achieve such goals, game-like scenarios and interfaces must be used, resulting in a training experience that is similar to an actual computer game. For example, the aforementioned Infosec IQ training program includes a security awareness training games with names such as Zombie Invasion or Deep Space Danger that provide an experiential learning approach for cybersecurity awareness training [7]. Thus, by using interactive scenarios, decisions and rewards, trainees are able to learn by doing in a fun and safe game environment. The methodology used in these games is said to increase engagement, boost learner retention, and accelerate security behavior changes, which aligns perfectly with the general goals of gamification.CyberCIEGE is a video game for teaching various computer and network security and defense concepts based on the active learning paradigm [13, 17]. Although no detailed technical skills are needed to play the game, players are able to verify their knowledge, as they try to make a trade-off between budget, productivity, and security. The game includes a wide range of devices the players can utilize, such as workstations, network devices, firewall, biometric scanners, etc. Various attack types are implemented, such corrupt insiders, malware, Denial of Service (DoS) attacks, exploitation of poorly configured systems, etc. An online help system to support players, as well as a scenario-definition language and tools for the creation of new scenarios, are also provided. CyberCIEGE is said to be available at no cost for U.S. government and educational institutions.Another relevant example of a game-like cybersecurity awareness training experience is described in [6]. In this research, the authors use the Activity Theory-based Model of Serious Games (ATMSG) methodology to design a cybersecurity awareness training game. The game was implemented as a visual novel game, also known as a story game, which is a type of interactive game in which players click on interface elements to make progress through the game, while making narrative choices along the way. The decisions learners make in the game environment help reinforce their cybersecurity awareness skills, which can later be applied in real-life situations.Applying the real-life escape room concept to cybersecurity awareness training is another manner in which gamification elements can be introduced in this type of training. For instance, the authors of [1] use an escape game as a teaching tool, preparing various scenarios that let participants practice their everyday cybersecurity skills. By using techniques such as strong password choices, and phishing email identification, trainees are able to mitigate the damage of the hacks and social-engineering attacks occurring in the game, thus gaining a valuable experience they can apply when faced with real-world security threats.

8.2.6 Approach ComparisonThe various cybersecurity awareness training approaches that we presented so far each have different characteristics, which make them more or less suitable under given circumstances. In Table 8.1, we compare these characteristics based on several criteria: form of content, training type, main advantages and disadvantages.Table 8.1Comparison of cybersecurity awareness training approachesMethodologyForm of contentTraining typeAdvantagesDisadvantagesReading materialsText and imagesPassiveEasy to referenceLeast engaging experienceVideo trainingVideosPassiveImpactful deliveryLack of interactivityE-learningText & images, videos, quizzesInteractiveSelf-assessment possibleNot hands-on experienceSimulationHands-on contentLearn by doingRealistic training experienceLack of controlGamificationGame-like hands-on contentLearn by doingMost engaging experienceHigh involvement required
8.2.6.1 Comparative AnalysisRegarding the form of content, we note that some approaches, such as reading materials and training videos, only provide text and images, or video-based content. In the case of e-learning, interactive aspects, such as quizzes are introduced. Additional improvements are present for simulation and gamification, which both include content of hands-on practical nature.The training type is very much related to the content form. Thus, reading materials and training videos represent passive forms of training, whereas e-learning is interactive. Simulation and gamification approaches take interactivity even further, by making it possible to conduct learn-by-doing type of training activities.Next we also analyze the main advantages and disadvantages of each cybersecurity awareness training approach:Reading materials: Very easy to reference when the information is required, but lack any form of learner engagement.Video training: Ensures an impactful and engaging delivery; however, no interaction with the content is available.E-learning: Self-assessment, typical via quizzes, is possible, but lacks hands-on experience capabilities.Simulation: Provides a realistic training experience; however, learners do not have any control on the delivery of the training.Gamification: Offers the most engaging experience, but requires a high level of involvement in the training from the part of the learners.
The analysis we presented demonstrates that there is no single cybersecurity awareness training approach that provides all the necessary features. Our conclusion, therefore, is that combinations of methodologies, such as e-learning and simulation, or e-learning and gamification, are perhaps the ideal solution for ensuring the most engaging and effective learning experience, as it is being done, for instance, in the Infosec IQ training program discussed earlier [8].
8.2.6.2 Detailed Assessment ProcedureIn addition to comparing cybersecurity awareness training approaches in general, one may desire to assess in more detail a specific training platform, for example in order to determine how well it is designed and implemented, or how well it is suited for a given purpose.While there seems to be no widely agreed upon detailed assessment procedure in the context of cybersecurity awareness training, we mention here a possible solution that uses an assessment questionnaire for this purpose [23]. The questionnaire is composed of two parts, as follows.Likert-scale Evaluation For the Likert-scale evaluation, respondents are asked to select one of the following five choices “Strongly Disagree,” “Disagree,” “Neutral,” “Agree,” “Strongly Agree” for each of the nine statements below: 1.The training platform was suitable for learning. 2.The training platform has a clear user interface. 3.You noticed problems with the training platform (dead links, etc.). 4.The training content is sufficiently in-depth. 5.You enjoyed the gamification features in the training (choose “Neutral” if there were not any). 6.The training content addresses real security threats. 7.You felt that the training was engaging. 8.You felt that your knowledge/skills improved by taking the training. 9.The training was practical and/or easy to apply. 
The role of the Likert-scale evaluation is to help determine whether the assessed platform, in its current state, is appropriate for learning in terms of various aspects, such as user interface, training content, gamification features, etc.Open Questions A set of three open questions is used to gather more detailed feedback about the evaluated system for its developers, so that they can improve the system in the future: 1.What are the three most important things that you learned? 2.What were the three biggest strengths and weaknesses of the training? 3.Do you have any suggestions for improving this training program/system? 
The above questionnaire was used in [23] to evaluate and compare several cybersecurity awareness training platforms that rely on the different approaches discussed in this chapter. The results of the questionnaire were also used as basis for proposing solutions for the improvement of the evaluated platforms, which emphasizes the possible practical applications of such a detailed assessment procedure.


8.3 Case Study: CyATPTo illustrate the various issues discussed in this chapter, we analyze in what follows a specific cybersecurity awareness training platform, named CyATP [24]. The platform was developed at Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology starting from 2020, and CyATP v1.0 was released as open source on GitHub in 2021 [2].8.3.1 CyATP OverviewCyATP is a cybersecurity awareness training platform that uses a web-based interface to provide various self-study components that support the learning process, as well as gamification components used as part of the evaluation process. CyATP was designed by considering several ways in which the effectiveness of the training can be improved, and we will focus on those specific features in this presentation. For more details about the implementation of the platform, see [24].The most important education mechanisms that were integrated into the CyATP platform are as follows:Interactive learning based on a concept map representation aimed at supporting learners’ interest and motivation.Content generation as a way to ensure that the training content is rich and varied, and that it can be easily kept up-to-date.Quiz interface based on crossword puzzle mechanics as a gamification feature aimed at increasing the learning experience enjoyment.
Each of the above features will be discussed and illustrated in more detail in the next subsections.
8.3.2 Concept Map Based LearningMost e-learning platforms present the information in a linear fashion, for instance, as a series of modules that the trainees need to go through sequentially in order to learn about the training content. However, this does not account for the differences that exist between learners in terms on knowledge level, interests, etc.To address this issue, CyATP uses a knowledge graph representation of the training content that makes it possible for trainees to explore the concepts in the training databases by following the logical connections between them in any order they prefer. In this manner, learners are able to prioritize the concepts they are interested it at that specific moment, compared to those concepts they are not interested in or perhaps master already. This capability is achieved via two components of the user interface, named Concept Map and Learn Concepts.8.3.2.1 Concept Map InterfaceThe concept map interface of CyATP displays an overview of all the concepts available in the training database in the form of a hierarchical graph representation. The representation is centered around the top-level concept for which the database was built, surrounded by lower-level concepts (the training content database itself is built automatically, as it will be explained in Sect. 8.3.3.1).In the example shown in Fig. 8.2, the top-level concept is “Computer security,” and the related concepts, such as “Mobile security” or “Information privacy,” are shown connected to it in the concept map graph. In their turn, the related concepts of even lower level, such as “Mobile malware” in relation with “Mobile security,” or “Medical privacy” in relation with “Information privacy,” are also shown connected to the higher-level concepts.A concept map illustrating various topics related to cybersecurity. Central nodes include "Computer security," "Cryptography," and "Digital forensics," with branches connecting to subtopics like "Antivirus software," "Privacy law," "Cryptography books," and "Access control." The map visually organizes these concepts, showing relationships and hierarchies among them. The layout uses different levels to indicate the depth of each topic, with nodes labeled from level 0 to level 6.Fig. 8.2Training content representation in CyATP as a hierarchical concept map
To ease visibility, the logical level on which a concept is located in the logical hierarchy is emphasized via the color of the node. Learners can interact with the graph to navigate through it, zoom in and out, show or hide some of the levels, etc. By exploring the concept map, learners are able to understand the relationship between concepts at several levels of detail, as desired. They can also proceed with the learning process in any order they wish, according to their personal interests.
8.3.2.2 Learn Concepts InterfaceThe learn concepts interface in CyATP makes it possible for learners to study in more detail any concept they want to know more about. This is achieved via two mechanisms. In the left-hand side, an interface similar to the concept map representation is shown, revealing the relation between the concept of interest and all the related concepts, both at higher and lower levels in the hierarchy. Secondly, in the right-hand side of the interface, the definition of the concept of interest is displayed, so that learners can gain deeper knowledge about those concepts via their textual description.In the example shown in Fig. 8.3, “Cryptography” is the concept of interest, and it is displayed in the center of the concept map representation. The higher-level concepts (in this case “Computer security”), as well as the lower-level ones (e.g., “Cryptographic software,” “Randomness,” etc.) are displayed around it, making the relationships between them very clear. The definition of “Cryptography” is also shown in the right-hand side.A concept map centered on "Cryptography" with branches connecting to related topics such as "Cryptographic protocols," "Cryptographic algorithms," "Quantum cryptography," and "Computer security." Each node is labeled with a level from 1 to
