# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2016 - The attack used a botnet of tens of thousands of IoT devices infected by the Mirai malware to generate a large amount of DDoS traffic, exceeding 1.2 Tbps, that affected many companies, such as Airbnb, Netflix, and Reddit. Moreover, the subsequent public distribution of the malware source code led to the creation of a large number of IoT botnets worldwide that are still a major cybersecurity threat [17].Another contributing factor that increases the risks associated with IoT devices is their cyber-physical nature. Thus, many IoT devices include not only sensors, but also actuators, and are thus able to perform actions in the physical world. If such an IoT device would be hacked, this could lead to safety risks for its users. For instance, hacking a smart lock may allow intruders to enter a house, thus leading to potential life-threatening circumstances for its occupants. The risks become even more obvious when referring to IoMT devices, that can directly affect the health of their users. For example, an analysis conducted in [12] has shown that many of the vulnerabilities related to IoMT devices are rated as high or critical, hence with a very high risk associated to them.Regarding the specific risks associated with IoT devices, given the lack of display capabilities of many of them, the challenge lies on how to convey those risks to trainees. The typical approach in this context is to design training scenarios that make obvious that a given IoT device was hacked by using it to drive an external application with visual features, such as a website, or the digital signage application used in [26]. Alternatively, side effects of the attack on IoT devices can be emphasized, as it was done in the security training scenarios presented in [4].
Security Relevance Score: 14
Word Count: 2358
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

The attack used a botnet of tens of thousands of IoT devices infected by the Mirai malware to generate a large amount of DDoS traffic, exceeding 1.2 Tbps, that affected many companies, such as Airbnb, Netflix, and Reddit. Moreover, the subsequent public distribution of the malware source code led to the creation of a large number of IoT botnets worldwide that are still a major cybersecurity threat [17].Another contributing factor that increases the risks associated with IoT devices is their cyber-physical nature. Thus, many IoT devices include not only sensors, but also actuators, and are thus able to perform actions in the physical world. If such an IoT device would be hacked, this could lead to safety risks for its users. For instance, hacking a smart lock may allow intruders to enter a house, thus leading to potential life-threatening circumstances for its occupants. The risks become even more obvious when referring to IoMT devices, that can directly affect the health of their users. For example, an analysis conducted in [12] has shown that many of the vulnerabilities related to IoMT devices are rated as high or critical, hence with a very high risk associated to them.Regarding the specific risks associated with IoT devices, given the lack of display capabilities of many of them, the challenge lies on how to convey those risks to trainees. The typical approach in this context is to design training scenarios that make obvious that a given IoT device was hacked by using it to drive an external application with visual features, such as a website, or the digital signage application used in [26]. Alternatively, side effects of the attack on IoT devices can be emphasized, as it was done in the security training scenarios presented in [4].
7.1.3 Developer IssuesWhen considering the challenges related to IoT security training compared to the regular cybersecurity training in relation with computer systems, it is important to note that there are two perspectives that need to be addressed, each with its specific issues: the developer perspective, and the end user perspective. We focus first on the developer perspective, addressing specific challenges and potential solutions, and a discussion of the end user perspective will follow in the next section.7.1.3.1 Specific ChallengesIoT developers are the driving force behind the spread of IoT, but there are several issues that create specific challenges in this context. In particular, the issues related to IoT developers emerge from aspects such as the low barrier to entry in the field, and the time to market pressure.Low Barrier to Entry Developing IoT systems is much cheaper in general compared to computer systems, especially when considering the smaller and simpler of the IoT devices, such as those used for home automation, for example. This is both from a software/firmware development perspective, given the relatively simple nature of the devices, and also from a manufacturing perspective, given the smaller costs of producing the actual devices.As a consequence, almost anyone with basic technological skills can try to develop IoT devices, which is another reason for their recent proliferation. Such issues are also encountered for regular software development, but do not occur for computer hardware development, which requires a significant larger amount of resources.Time to Market Pressure The market of IoT devices is a very competitive one. Therefore, the pressure to make the product available for sale as quickly as possible is very high. Consequently, IoT developers will frequently focus mainly on the functionality of the devices, and perhaps their external appearance and design. This means that security and privacy aspects are more often than not neglected.In contrast, for computer systems the expectations related to security and privacy are already high on the consumer side. Therefore, manufacturers are usually not willing to take any shortcuts in this respect.
7.1.3.2 Potential SolutionsThere are several ways in which the above issues can be addressed, and significant efforts have already been conducted in these directions. From an IoT hardware manufacturer perspective, including various security features in their platforms can ease the burden on developers when trying to add security and privacy characteristics into their systems. For example, the ESP32 microcontroller unit (MCU) has some built-in security features, such as secure boot, flash encryption, cryptographic hardware acceleration, and a random number generator. Nevertheless, actually using these features is not always straightforward, and the results are not always as expected; moreover, security and privacy need to be considered in an end-to-end manner, including the communication protocol, cloud storage mechanisms, etc. [22].From a regulator perspective, various governments and organizations have defined guidelines and requirements pertaining to IoT security. A representative example on the government side are the secure IoT development guidelines released by the European Union Agency for Cybersecurity (ENISA) [14], but similar documents were published in many other countries, such as the U.S., the U.K., etc. On the organization side, the IoT security guidelines and assessment methodology released by the GSM Association (GSMA) is another key example [18].We note that there are various IoT devices and protocols that include built-in security features, and many countries make available relevant security guidelines. However, whether the developers who use those devices actually utilize their security features, and to what extent they follow the relevant regulations is in the end highly dependent on their security awareness. Consequently, from an IoT developer perspective, general IoT security training, as well as learning from thorough analyses such as that presented in [22], are key to ensure that developers are motivated and technically able to follow safe and competent IoT development practices.

7.1.4 End User IssuesEnd users are those who put the IoT technologies into actual use. Moreover, they are those who have to suffer the negative consequences in case their IoT systems are successfully targeted by cyberattacks. Therefore, their perspective on IoT is as important as that of developers.7.1.4.1 Specific ChallengesThe specific issues that IoT devices pose from an end user perspective are related to their physical characteristics, such as user interface limitations, but also to other aspects, such as perception and life span, as it will be discussed next.User Interface Limitations Most IoT devices have very limited user interfaces compared to computer systems, often lacking any form of display and sometimes lacking even input mechanisms. Therefore, interactions with IoT devices are conducted mainly via smartphones apps or web interfaces. Unfortunately, this hides any potential security issues that the devices may have and makes it difficult for users to react in case a device is hacked, for example.In contrast, computer systems often show more obvious signs of malware activity, for example, via symptoms such as a slower response, undesired messages being displayed, etc. The limited interface of IoT devices also makes it more difficult for users to update the firmware of the device when needed, although many of the IoT devices with network connectivity do have automatic update mechanisms available; this again differs from the case of computer systems, for which the software can always be updated via the internet automatically.Perception Inertia Many IoT devices are positioned as smart versions of existing devices, such as a smart light bulb being basically a light bulb with intelligent features, such as changing colors and doing other adjustments, which are not available with regular light bulbs. However, in the mind of a typical user, a smart light bulb is often still just a light bulb. This contributes to an inertia regarding the awareness that security and privacy aspects need to be considered when using those IoT devices that need not be considered for their non-smart equivalents.Short Lifespan IoT devices usually have a much shorter life span compared to computer systems. Some of the reasons for this are related to the physical limitations of the devices, such as the need to use small batteries that are sometimes non-replaceable due to physical or design constraints.Availability of support is another possible cause of a shorter life span. In some cases, this happens because the manufacturer itself ceases to exist, as bankruptcy can sometimes occur, especially for small manufacturers. Nevertheless, occasionally even big manufacturers can decide to end support for their devices due to economic reasons. For instance, Netgear declared in 2020 that a total of forty-five different Wi-Fi routers and home gateways are “outside security support,” and consequently will not get any further security patches, despite these devices having serious security flaws that were already known [29].
7.1.4.2 Potential SolutionsTo address the above issues, we believe that the most effective measure that can be taken at the user level is to increase their security awareness in regard to IoT technology. This can be achieved via security awareness education and training methods such as those that be discussed in Chap. 8.From a regulator perspective, any measures that can help consumers make informed decisions about IoT device security are important. A notable effort in this direction is the cybersecurity labeling for IoT devices and software taken by the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). While that activity is still ongoing, NIST has already published in the framework of this program a set of recommended criteria for the cybersecurity labeling of consumer IoT products that describe, among others, how a software provider should claim adherence to accepted secure software development practices throughout the software development lifecycle, for example with respect to a secure software development process implementation, secure design and vulnerability remediation, and so on [20].While the IoT device end user perspective in very important, we consider that by training the IoT developers most of the issues discussed so far can be addressed in a satisfactory manner. Therefore, in what follows we will focus mainly on discussing the technical IoT security training perspective.


7.2 IoT Security Training ApproachesIoT security training is a relatively newer area compared to traditional cybersecurity training. Nevertheless, several types of training approaches have emerged over the years, which we grouped into two classes: hands-on training and theoretical training.7.2.1 Hands-On TrainingSimilarly to technical cybersecurity training, the main way in which trainees can acquire deep knowledge and practical skills regarding IoT security is via hands-on training. We have identified three main categories of hands-on IoT security training approaches, as it will be discussed next:Academic training.Commercial training.Training systems.
7.2.1.1 Academic TrainingEducation activities conducted in academic institutions sometimes include interactive hands-on exercises that students can use to apply into practice the knowledge they have gained in the related lectures. Those exercises are therefore custom designed to support those specific lectures, and being able to solve them requires that students take the lectures first, or already possess equivalent knowledge.For instance, a set of penetration testing exercises regarding smart home security cameras was presented in [28]. During these exercises, students use the Kali Linux distribution to investigate the vulnerabilities of the real security cameras provided as training platform. However, the exercises are not designed to be done in a standalone manner. Thus, the students must already have an understanding of Kali Linux, a background that is provided in an associated course by the organizing academic institution, the United Arab Emirates University.Another example of IoT security exercises that are offered in an academic context are those presented in [26]. This set of exercises is more complex, being divided into two classes: basic exercises regarding vulnerability detection and countermeasure techniques, and advanced exercises in relation with pentesting techniques. The basic exercises are implemented using the WebGoat insecure application platform made available by the OWASP foundation [27]. As for the advanced exercises, a real Raspberry Pi device is used as attack target for practicing well-known offensive techniques, such as Cross-Site Request Forgery.
7.2.1.2 Commercial TrainingVarious training organizations provide commercial IoT training programs that include hands-on activities with actual IoT devices. Typically, these programs have a deep technical nature, and their practical aspect is extremely relevant from a workforce perspective, as it prepares the trainees to handle real-world situations. However, the commercial nature of these programs makes them potentially costly to attend.For example, Cisco Networking Academy offers a training course named IoT Fundamentals: IoT Security [7]. This course makes use of Raspberry Pi devices for hands-on on exercises that target various practical skills. Trainees can learn how to conduct end-to-end security assessments of IoT systems, how to minimize risks via threat mitigation measures, and how to use actual pentesting and vulnerability testing tools. The Cisco Networking Academy training course is conducted in an instructor-led manner and has an estimated completion duration of 50 h.Another hands-on commercial training program is IoT Penetration Testing that is provided by SANS Institute [24]. Although this is an online program, SANS Institute supplies the trainees with the IoT devices necessary for hands-on training upon registration. The course mainly addresses offensive-security topics, such as how to assess the security of IoT web applications, how to discover the functionality of IoT hardware, how to explore IoT device firmware to identify secret information and implementation issues, how to interact with wireless IoT technologies, etc.
7.2.1.3 Training SystemsAnother approach to IoT training is to use dedicated hardware platforms for IoT security training. Several companies provide such IoT training systems that include all the necessary components for being able to learn and practice thoroughly with specific IoT technologies. Compared to the other approaches discussed so far, dedicated IoT training systems are more difficult to deploy and scale, and purchase costs are relatively high. Nevertheless, after purchase they can be used repeatedly within an organization at no additional expense.The company 3 Rocks Technology offers a set of IoT training systems that target engineers in the IoT field [1]. The two key products provided are named Internet of Things Trainer and Embedded IoT Training System. Both systems can be configured to include hardware components that cover a wide range of sensing aspects, as well as a smart gateway, Raspberry Pi and Arduino devices, etc. The training scenarios make it possible to conduct training in relation with practical IoT systems, including IoT farm management, IoT home appliance control, IoT fire alarm systems, etc.Another company in the IoT training system area is Scientific & Technical Products (STP). Its systems cover various IoT applications, including home networks and healthcare [25]. An example in the STP training system product family line is the Raspberry Pi 3 based system named IoT-
