# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 001 - Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
Security Relevance Score: 6
Word Count: 642
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Nomi, Ishikawa, Japan






				ISBN 978-981-96-0554-5
e-ISBN 978-981-96-0555-2


https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-96-0555-2

© The Editor(s) (if applicable) and The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2025
This work is subject to copyright. All rights are solely and exclusively licensed by the Publisher, whether the whole or part of the material is concerned, specifically the rights of translation, reprinting, reuse of illustrations, recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microfilms or in any other physical way, and transmission or information storage and retrieval, electronic adaptation, computer software, or by similar or dissimilar methodology now known or hereafter developed.
The use of general descriptive names, registered names, trademarks, service marks, etc. in this publication does not imply, even in the absence of a specific statement, that such names are exempt from the relevant protective laws and regulations and therefore free for general use.
The publisher, the authors and the editors are safe to assume that the advice and information in this book are believed to be true and accurate at the date of publication. Neither the publisher nor the authors or the editors give a warranty, expressed or implied, with respect to the material contained herein or for any errors or omissions that may have been made. The publisher remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.

This Springer imprint is published by the registered company Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd.
The registered company address is: 152 Beach Road, #21-01/04 Gateway East, Singapore 189721, Singapore




To my family and two cats =ˆ.ˆ=



Preface

In the early 2000s, as a fresh Ph.D. student living in France, I returned back to my home country, Romania, for the holidays. Naturally, I took with me the laptop that I had recently purchased and used for a while already. Once I arrived home, I almost immediately connected it to the Internet—via dial-up access, naturally—to read my emails. Almost instantly I noticed some strange network activity, and by some sort of reflex, I disconnected the modem cable. Alas, it was too late, as a virus had already infected my laptop, and every minute or so the computer would keep rebooting itself. What was I to do?!
The only solution I could come up with was to visit one of the early Internet cafés that had popped up in Bucharest and investigate the problem. Luckily, I was able to find some instructions on how to remove that virus by deleting a specific file in the system directory. I then rushed home and used the interval between reboots to follow those instructions as quickly as I could. Imagine my relief when, lo and behold, the virus was gone. Only then I was able to use again my computer normally (after enabling the firewall this time, of course).
Fast forward 20+ years, and I am now doing research on cybersecurity in Japan, one of my topics being cybersecurity education and training. Times have changed, and nobody in their right mind would connect to the Internet on a computer that doesn’t have some security software installed. Malware has also evolved, and the chances that you can remove an infection yourself by simply deleting one file are pretty slim. Given the emergence of advanced persistent threats, you’ll probably not even notice that your computer is infected. But despite all these changes, my vision of cybersecurity is still driven by that early experience I had when connecting my first laptop to a dial-up network in Romania, as doing practical things by yourself is definitely a sine qua non of this field.
Fortunately, I was able to put into play this vision as a member of the Cyber Range Organization and Design (CROND) endowed chair at Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (JAIST) that was established with the support of NEC Corporation from April 2015 until March
