# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - Then, we will describe in more detail the approaches used to address each of the aforementioned challenges.12.2.1 CyTrONE ArchitectureCyTrONE was designed with a modular architecture that makes it possible to replace or add components as needed, contributing to the flexibility of the framework. The overall architecture of CyTrONE is pictured in Fig. 12.1. Next, we will briefly examine each framework component by following the left-to-right order of the components in the figure, namely:Web UI.CyTrONE.Training Database.Training Content.CyLMS.Moodle LMS.CyPROM.CyRIS.Cyber Range.
Diagram illustrating the CYTRONE system architecture for cyber training. An instructor uses a web UI to interact with CYTRONE, which connects to a training database and content. CYTRONE interfaces with Moodle LMS via CYMS, and with trainees through CYDMS. It also links to cyber ranges using CYRMS, facilitating comprehensive training sessions.Fig. 12.1Overall architecture of the integrated cybersecurity training framework CyTrONE
Security Relevance Score: 3
Word Count: 498
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Then, we will describe in more detail the approaches used to address each of the aforementioned challenges.12.2.1 CyTrONE ArchitectureCyTrONE was designed with a modular architecture that makes it possible to replace or add components as needed, contributing to the flexibility of the framework. The overall architecture of CyTrONE is pictured in Fig. 12.1. Next, we will briefly examine each framework component by following the left-to-right order of the components in the figure, namely:Web UI.CyTrONE.Training Database.Training Content.CyLMS.Moodle LMS.CyPROM.CyRIS.Cyber Range.
Diagram illustrating the CYTRONE system architecture for cyber training. An instructor uses a web UI to interact with CYTRONE, which connects to a training database and content. CYTRONE interfaces with Moodle LMS via CYMS, and with trainees through CYDMS. It also links to cyber ranges using CYRMS, facilitating comprehensive training sessions.Fig. 12.1Overall architecture of the integrated cybersecurity training framework CyTrONE
12.2.1.1 Web UIThe web user interface (UI) component of the framework is primarily targeted at instructors and makes it possible for them to control the execution of CyTrONE. The Web UI has two main functions currently:Create a training activity based on training content representations stored in the training database; the number of trainees/teams must be specified at this point, so that the framework knows how many replicas of the corresponding training environment should be created.End an ongoing training activity by removing the associated training content from the Learning Management System (LMS) and destroying all the training environment instances associated to that activity.

12.2.1.2 CyTrONEThe module called CyTrONE, which also gives the training framework its name, serves as a general management module for the entire framework. This is achieved via several key functions, as follows:Mediate the interactions between users and the framework, either via the command line or via the web user interface.Control the other framework modules, namely CyLMS, CyRIS, and CyPROM.Retrieve from the training database the training content and corresponding training environment representation for a particular training activity.

12.2.1.3 Training DatabaseThe Training Database component of the framework mainly stores the training content, and all the files associated to it, as it will be described in the next section.In addition, several auxiliary configuration files are stored, which provide the information needed for each instructor to be able to access the framework UI and create training activities. This includes usernames and passwords, details about the servers that are to be used for cyber range creation, etc.
12.2.1.4 Training ContentThe Training Content component of CyTrONE refers to three main types of information that are needed to create training activities, as follows:Training content representation: The tasks that participants must address during a given training activity.Training environment description: The composition of the training environment that participants must use in order to address those tasks.Auxiliary files: Any other files that are required to conduct the training, such as images that are to be displayed in the LMS, binary files, and scripts needed to set up the training environment.
The CyTrONE training content representation, its specific syntax, and several illustrative examples will be discussed in Sect. 12.
