# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2 - The discussed applications will be illustrated with examples based on the results obtained for CyTrONE that were presented in the previous section.13.4.1 For DevelopersThe radar charts presented in Figs. 13.2 through 13.5 provide a very detailed view on the capabilities of a training platform. This makes them most useful for training platform developers, so we will first look at their perspective. Thus, developers can use those results to identify features that should be added to the platform implementation, or existing functionality that should be extended.Feature Addition If a capability is deemed to be at Level 0 for a certain criterion, then adding the corresponding feature would improve the overall capabilities of the platform. For example, criterion TD-5 in Fig. 13.2 indicates that CyTrONE content representation cannot be used to specify the roles of trainees. Adding support for trainee roles, such as attacker or defender, would be beneficial from this perspective.Feature Extension On the other hand, a given capability may be present in the platform, but its assessment score can be low. For instance, criterion AF-2 in Fig. 13.5 is evaluated as Level 1, but the maximum score for that capability is Level 3. This indicates that support for importing training content is relatively poor in CyTrONE, since instructors must update the content database themselves. Consequently, adding the feature of importing training content via CLI or GUI would improve the overall capability of the framework.
Security Relevance Score: 4
Word Count: 1518
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

The discussed applications will be illustrated with examples based on the results obtained for CyTrONE that were presented in the previous section.13.4.1 For DevelopersThe radar charts presented in Figs. 13.2 through 13.5 provide a very detailed view on the capabilities of a training platform. This makes them most useful for training platform developers, so we will first look at their perspective. Thus, developers can use those results to identify features that should be added to the platform implementation, or existing functionality that should be extended.Feature Addition If a capability is deemed to be at Level 0 for a certain criterion, then adding the corresponding feature would improve the overall capabilities of the platform. For example, criterion TD-5 in Fig. 13.2 indicates that CyTrONE content representation cannot be used to specify the roles of trainees. Adding support for trainee roles, such as attacker or defender, would be beneficial from this perspective.Feature Extension On the other hand, a given capability may be present in the platform, but its assessment score can be low. For instance, criterion AF-2 in Fig. 13.5 is evaluated as Level 1, but the maximum score for that capability is Level 3. This indicates that support for importing training content is relatively poor in CyTrONE, since instructors must update the content database themselves. Consequently, adding the feature of importing training content via CLI or GUI would improve the overall capability of the framework.
13.4.2 For OrganizersAs it was discussed when introducing organizers, this stakeholder category has several subclasses, so we will distinguish between them when discussing the capability assessment applications from an organizer perspective.13.4.2.1 InstructorsInstructors are those who use cybersecurity training platforms most closely among all the organizers. Consequently, they can make use of the radar charts we discussed already to determine, for example, to what extent a certain required feature is supported by the training platform.However, if a training platform is to be evaluated overall, and maybe even compared to another training platform, a higher-level view is preferable, that aggregates the results of the assessment. To illustrate this idea, we present in Table 13.2 statistical information about the capabilities of CyTrONE per group of assessment criteria. The statistics are shown as percentages to compensate for the fact that the maximum capability level can differ from a criterion to another, since percentages offer an easy-to-understand metric that can also be used to compare two different platforms.Table 13.2Capability assessment results per groups of criteriaCriterion classCriterion groupCapability level (%)Training Definition (TD)Functional57.14Usability76.92Overall66.67Sandbox Definition (SD)Functional72.22Usability84.62Overall77.42Environment Management (EM)Functional63.64Performance100.00Usability100.00Overall88.24Activity Facilitation (AF)Pretraining setup57.14Training execution57.14Post-training assessment50.00Overall56.52Total capability level71.01
We note that Table 13.2 offers some insights that are not readily available from the radar charts. For training definition capabilities, for instance, the functional capabilities are at around 57%, whereas usability is rated higher, at around 77%, with the overall capabilities in this class being at around 67%. Similarly, although the functional environment management capabilities are only at around 63%, performance and usability both reach the value of 100%, for an overall of around 88%.In the table, we have also included the total overall capability for CyTrONE computed across all the assessment criteria. The value of about 71% can be considered as an overall estimate of the capabilities of the framework. This value can also be used to compare CyTrONE to other cybersecurity training platforms.
13.4.2.2 AdministratorsAdministrators are not involved in the actual use of training platforms, but in their management. For this reason, they may disregard some of the information in the radar charts and only focus on those aspects that are related to platform management.Thus, similar to the concept of assessment profile mentioned in Sect. 13.2.3.2, administrators could ignore most of the features regarding training definition, but need to consider carefully those related to sandbox definition. This is because technical effort on their side is needed to implement support for sandboxes, for instance with regard to host categories (see SD-2), such as bare metal, VMs, or containers, and CPU architectures (see SD-3), such as x86 or ARM.Another point of significant interest for administrators is the performance-related criteria regarding network environment management, namely EM-6 through EM-8, as administrators are those who need to make those assessments and also handle any technical issues that may arise.For these reasons, we consider that administrators can benefit from an even higher-level view than the information shown in the previous table by focusing only on the type of assessment criteria. Therefore, in Table 13.3 we show the corresponding statistics from this perspective. The table indicates that the overall functional capabilities of CyTrONE are medium, whereas performance capabilities are excellent, and usability capabilities are overall high. The facilitation capabilities are lowest, at just 56%, but they are not of much concern to administrators.Table 13.3Capability assessment results per type of criteriaCriteria typeCapability level (%)Functional capabilities65.12Performance capabilities100.00Usability capabilities87.50Facilitation capabilities56.52Total capabilities71.01

13.4.2.3 Decision-MakersThe third type of stakeholders in the organizer category are the decision-makers. Capability assessment provides them with objective metrics that can be used to support their decisions. However, we consider that the detailed information shown in the radar charts is too low level for this purpose.Consequently, for decision-makers, we propose using a view that emphasizes the capability levels of the assessed training platform for each class of capability criteria. Such information is visualized in Fig. 13.6, which shows the capability levels in percentage for the four classes of capabilities defined in the assessment methodology. The total capability level is also plotted, since it can serve as an overall metric.Bar chart showing capability levels in percentage for different assessment criteria classes: RD, SD, BM, AP, and Total. BM has the highest capability level, while AP has the lowest. The y-axis represents capability level percentage, and the x-axis lists the criteria classes.Fig. 13.6Capability assessment per class of criteria: training definition (TD), sandbox definition (SD), network environment management (EM), training activity facilitation (AF), and the overall level (Total)
Looking first at the training content representation classes, namely training definition (TD) and sandbox definition (SD), we observe they have acceptable values that both exceed 60%, with SD capabilities being higher, close to 80%. This means that the overall capability of CyTrONE regarding training content representation is over 70%, which on the whole is a good score.For network environment management capabilities (EM), CyTrONE scores even higher, with the overall level for that class being close to 90%. On the contrary, training activity facilitation capabilities (AF) have the lowest score of all the classes, being less than 60%. From this metric, decision-makers can understand that this is the weakest point of the training platform.In Fig. 13.6, we also observe that the total capability level of CyTrONE is around 70%, and this global metric can be used to compare it to other platforms in an objective manner. However, we consider that a more detailed analysis that considers the average capability level for each class of criteria is a better approach, as it allows highlighting the specific advantages and disadvantages of each platform. This kind of detailed comparative analysis was conducted in [3], where CyTrONE was compared with the KYPO Cyber Range Platform [6, 8].The fact that the capability assessment methodology we discussed makes possible such a comparative analysis represents one of its strongest potential applications. Moreover, this type of comparison is the most effective use of the methodology from the perspective of decision-makers.

13.4.3 For TraineesTypically, trainees do not have a direct control over what training platform is used in a cybersecurity training course. Therefore, the kind of detailed assessment results as those shown in the radar charts are not very relevant to them. However, trainees may be interested in the high-level assessment information that we have presented, such as that included in Table 13.3 or Fig. 13.6, as it gives them an overview of the capabilities of the training platform.Moreover, training organizers could use that type of high-level information for the purpose of attracting trainees into a training program, for instance, by showing potential participants how good the capabilities of the training platform are. Organizers could also choose to present comparative assessment data to emphasize the characteristics of their training platform in comparison with those of the platforms used by other cybersecurity training providers.Note that if someone is trying to select a training platform for themselves, such as one of the online CTF platforms discussed in Chap. 10, then their role is not only that of a trainee. Consequently, they should also refer to the organizer perspective discussed earlier in Sect. 13.4.2 for examples of how the capability assessment results can be utilized from that point of view.

AcknowledgementsThe author would like to acknowledge the contributions of Jan Vykopal, Daniela Belajová, and Pavel Čeleda from Masaryk University, Czech Republic, to the development of the training platform capability assessment methodology that was presented in this chapter. Moreover, Jan Vykopal implemented the initial version of the script used to plot the radar charts that we have presented.References1.Aschmann MJ (2020) Towards a capability maturity model for a cyber range. Master’s thesis. Rhodes University, Faculty of Science, Computer Science
2.Beuran R, Tang D, Pham C, Chinen K, Tan Y, Shinoda Y (2018) Integrated framework for hands-on cybersecurity training: CyTrONE. Comput Secur 78C:43–
