# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - 9.1.2 Component OverviewAs mentioned above, we group the training platform components into those components that are used for the actual training activities, the core components, and those modules that support the training activities, the support components. The main characteristics of the defined components will be detailed next, along with a description of their interactions with each other.9.1.2.1 Core ComponentsThe core components of a cybersecurity training platform that we define for the purpose of functionality separation are as follows:Training Manager.Data Storage.Training Content.Training Environment.Training Manager The Training Manager module is a software component of the training platform that is used to manage all aspects of the training activity. This includes not only starting and stopping the training activity, but also running actions during the training, such as executing attacks, generating background traffic, etc.In its simplest form, the Training Manager can be implemented as a set of scripts used to deploy the training content, as well as set up and run the training environment. However, more advanced training platforms use a standalone Training Manager module that has this kind of functionality.As illustrated in Fig. 9.1, the Training Manager interacts with the Data Storage for the purpose of storing data about the training activities and to retrieve the Training Content. It also interacts with the Training Environment in order to manage it. Optionally, if Portal support components are present, the Training Manager also interacts with them, for example, receiving settings and actions from Instructors, and registering information for Trainees.Data Storage The Data Storage is the location where all the artifacts related to the training activities are stored. Initially, this refers mainly to the Training Content, such as text and binary files that are needed in order to define the tasks for Trainees and create the Training Environment. However, as training progresses, Data Storage is also used to store any data that may result from the training activity, such as logs of trainees’ interactions with the Training Environment, etc.Data Storage is a passive component of the training platform, and the module that typically accesses it is the Training Manager, as shown in Fig. 9.1. Nevertheless, depending on the implementation, other components can access the Data Storage directly. For example, the Monitoring support component may store data retrieved from the Training Environment, which can then be displayed in the Portal for Instructors or used for further processing.Training Content The Training Content represents the totality of materials that are used to define a training activity. Depending on the type of training, the Training Content can be in the form of questions the trainees must answer, descriptions of the tasks that they must perform, and so on. Additional types of training content can include an outline of the training activity, hints that help with solving the questions/tasks, etc. The specifications of the training environment that must be used in connection with a given set of training materials can also be part of the Training Content.The Training Content is typically stored in the Data Storage component of the training platform (see Fig. 9.1). Since it is not a software module, many training platform architectures omit to specify it directly, and consider it as an implicit resource. From our perspective, however, a training platform without training content is basically useless. Moreover, once a training platform is deployed, most of the effort is spent in creating and updating the training content. Consequently, we have defined Training Content as an explicit component of our training platform model. As it is one of the most important components in our model, a more detailed discussion regarding training content will be provided in Sect. 9.2.Training Environment The Training Environment represents the set of digital assets that are practically used for the hands-on training activity. A Training Environment is first of all composed of one or more computing devices or virtual machines to which the trainees connect to solve the tasks specified in the training content, as well as the network connectivity between them. In addition, the settings and software packages that are included in the computing resource are also part of the Training Environment.As depicted in Fig. 9.1, the Training Environment is mainly configured and controlled via the Training Manager. However, it can also interact with other modules, such as the Monitoring support component, that extracts trainee activity logs from the environment, for example. It is also important to emphasize that there is a many-to-one dependency between the Training Content mentioned above and the Training Environment. Thus, a given Training Content requires a Training Environment with appropriate specifications in order to be made available for training. Moreover, a Training Environment can be used for hands-on practice in connection with different types of Training Content. The characteristics of training environments will be examined in more detail in Sect. 9.3.
Security Relevance Score: 5
Word Count: 1315
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

9.1.2 Component OverviewAs mentioned above, we group the training platform components into those components that are used for the actual training activities, the core components, and those modules that support the training activities, the support components. The main characteristics of the defined components will be detailed next, along with a description of their interactions with each other.9.1.2.1 Core ComponentsThe core components of a cybersecurity training platform that we define for the purpose of functionality separation are as follows:Training Manager.Data Storage.Training Content.Training Environment.Training Manager The Training Manager module is a software component of the training platform that is used to manage all aspects of the training activity. This includes not only starting and stopping the training activity, but also running actions during the training, such as executing attacks, generating background traffic, etc.In its simplest form, the Training Manager can be implemented as a set of scripts used to deploy the training content, as well as set up and run the training environment. However, more advanced training platforms use a standalone Training Manager module that has this kind of functionality.As illustrated in Fig. 9.1, the Training Manager interacts with the Data Storage for the purpose of storing data about the training activities and to retrieve the Training Content. It also interacts with the Training Environment in order to manage it. Optionally, if Portal support components are present, the Training Manager also interacts with them, for example, receiving settings and actions from Instructors, and registering information for Trainees.Data Storage The Data Storage is the location where all the artifacts related to the training activities are stored. Initially, this refers mainly to the Training Content, such as text and binary files that are needed in order to define the tasks for Trainees and create the Training Environment. However, as training progresses, Data Storage is also used to store any data that may result from the training activity, such as logs of trainees’ interactions with the Training Environment, etc.Data Storage is a passive component of the training platform, and the module that typically accesses it is the Training Manager, as shown in Fig. 9.1. Nevertheless, depending on the implementation, other components can access the Data Storage directly. For example, the Monitoring support component may store data retrieved from the Training Environment, which can then be displayed in the Portal for Instructors or used for further processing.Training Content The Training Content represents the totality of materials that are used to define a training activity. Depending on the type of training, the Training Content can be in the form of questions the trainees must answer, descriptions of the tasks that they must perform, and so on. Additional types of training content can include an outline of the training activity, hints that help with solving the questions/tasks, etc. The specifications of the training environment that must be used in connection with a given set of training materials can also be part of the Training Content.The Training Content is typically stored in the Data Storage component of the training platform (see Fig. 9.1). Since it is not a software module, many training platform architectures omit to specify it directly, and consider it as an implicit resource. From our perspective, however, a training platform without training content is basically useless. Moreover, once a training platform is deployed, most of the effort is spent in creating and updating the training content. Consequently, we have defined Training Content as an explicit component of our training platform model. As it is one of the most important components in our model, a more detailed discussion regarding training content will be provided in Sect. 9.2.Training Environment The Training Environment represents the set of digital assets that are practically used for the hands-on training activity. A Training Environment is first of all composed of one or more computing devices or virtual machines to which the trainees connect to solve the tasks specified in the training content, as well as the network connectivity between them. In addition, the settings and software packages that are included in the computing resource are also part of the Training Environment.As depicted in Fig. 9.1, the Training Environment is mainly configured and controlled via the Training Manager. However, it can also interact with other modules, such as the Monitoring support component, that extracts trainee activity logs from the environment, for example. It is also important to emphasize that there is a many-to-one dependency between the Training Content mentioned above and the Training Environment. Thus, a given Training Content requires a Training Environment with appropriate specifications in order to be made available for training. Moreover, a Training Environment can be used for hands-on practice in connection with different types of Training Content. The characteristics of training environments will be examined in more detail in Sect. 9.3.
9.1.2.2 Support ComponentsIn addition to the core components of the cybersecurity training platform model that we discussed so far, several support modules can be used to improve the usability of the training platform, as follows:Portal.Education Functions.Monitoring.Portal The Portal represents the user interface of the training platform. For Instructors, this refers to various training management actions, such as selecting the training content for a given training activity, creating and destroying the training environment, and so on. For Trainees, the Portal constitutes the way in which they can participate in the training via features such as access to the training content and training environment, registration of answers, etc.The above discussion illustrates the fact that the two types of actors in our model use different features of the Portal. For this reason, in Fig. 9.1 we have represented it as distinct modules for each type of target user, although a particular implementation could use a single Portal component that presents a different interface depending on the role of the logged-in user. As for interactions, the Portal is mainly connected to the Training Manager, to which it delivers user commands, and from which it retrieves status information to be displayed in the interface. In addition, the Education Functions component can be used to add education-related functionality to the Portal, as it will be discussed next.Education Functions The Education Functions component stands for all the features that add education capabilities to the training platform. Such features can include tutoring, in which e-learning content is presented to Trainees to help them learn related concepts, or hints that can be associated to the provided tasks to assist participants who are stuck when trying to solve them.Other features are related to the way in which scoring for the solutions provided to tasks is done—including depending on whether hints were used or not—and in which those scores are managed. This can also include the certification of the skill or skills that were required to complete a given task, for example, in connection with skill frameworks such as the NICE Framework (see Sect. 3.​2.​1).As shown in Fig. 9.1, Education Functions is basically a support module for the Portal component, hence it interacts with it both in order to assist Trainees, for example, via the tutoring feature mentioned above, and also to support Instructors, for example by making it possible to view and manage Trainee scores.Monitoring The Monitoring component is a support module that is in charge of collecting information from the hosts in the Training Environment. Such information can be used to better understand the activity of the Trainees. For example, action logs could show which commands the Trainees executed, and in which order, revealing information about how well they master the related knowledge and skills. By analyzing this information, Instructors can refine the training materials in order to better teach those skills, and also refine the training content in order to ensure the target skills are learned according to recognized best practices.The main interaction of the Monitoring component is with the Training Environment, which is the source of the Trainee action-related information that the module collects, as illustrated in Fig. 9.
