# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 3 - Additional services provided by SANS Institute in regard to cyber range training include:Custom cyber ranges: SANS can create customized cyber ranges to meet the specific needs of an organization, including the definition of learning objectives, development of a training score card, and custom configuration of the training content and environment.NetWars Tournament: A 6-hour practice competition version of NetWars that covers the content of the following cyber ranges: Core, Cyber Defense, DFIR, GRID, ICS, and Healthcare.NetWars Continuous: An online 4-month hands-on training solution that covers the topics of the Core and DFIR cyber ranges. The training content is designed with tasks and hints that support a continuous knowledge and skill development.
Security Relevance Score: 14
Word Count: 1464
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Additional services provided by SANS Institute in regard to cyber range training include:Custom cyber ranges: SANS can create customized cyber ranges to meet the specific needs of an organization, including the definition of learning objectives, development of a training score card, and custom configuration of the training content and environment.NetWars Tournament: A 6-hour practice competition version of NetWars that covers the content of the following cyber ranges: Core, Cyber Defense, DFIR, GRID, ICS, and Healthcare.NetWars Continuous: An online 4-month hands-on training solution that covers the topics of the Core and DFIR cyber ranges. The training content is designed with tasks and hints that support a continuous knowledge and skill development.

11.2.2.10 Project Ares LabsProject Ares Labs is a cyber range-based training program provided by the company Circadence [11]. The program uses realistic network environments and hands-on exercises to enable an interactive learning experience. The key features of Project Ares Labs are as follows:Cyber learning games: Basic cybersecurity concepts, such as the cyber kill chain, network ports and protocols, or regular expressions techniques, are taught through arcade-style game experiences.Cyber range practice: Foundational cybersecurity labs based on hands-on practice are used to introduce skills related to topics such as Linux Basics and Windows Fundamentals and tools such as Nmap, Kali Linux, PowerShell, Snort, and Wireshark. A built-in hint system is used to support the learning process.Specialized labs/scenarios: Missions based on offensive and defensive real-world scenarios are used to teach trainees how to handle complex threats, such as botnets, data exfiltration, phishing, and ransomware. In-game rewards, such as badges and coins, are used to motivate participants, who can play individually, or as a team.

11.2.2.11 RHEA Next-Generation Cyber RangeThe company RHEA System S.A. provides a wide range of services on its Next-Generation Cyber Range platform [42]. Its main training targets are as follows:Governments and large enterprises, who can train their cybersecurity professionals in a safe and controlled training environment that can be set up using a GUI. Through a series of included templates, various cyberattack scenarios can be modeled corresponding to the specific nature of those organizations.Critical infrastructure and heavy industry, who can use the platform to conduct training related to the protection of critical infrastructure and heavy industry facilities. The training environment can emulate assets in relation with SCADA, ICS, and IoT technologies.Academic institutions, who can use the cyber range as a cybersecurity education platform for training their students. Training scenarios can be customized to meet the requirements of the education curriculum.Small businesses, who can use the cyber range in a SaaS manner that makes it possible to conduct customized training activities remotely.

11.2.2.12 Silensec CYBER RANGESSilensec CYBER RANGES is a cybersecurity training platform that uses a series of advanced technologies to deliver realistic training and capability development exercises [44]. The training is conducted in life-like environments using real-world scenarios to make it possible for participants to learn how to handle real cybersecurity threats. The key features of CYBER RANGES are as follows:Realistic environment: The training environment is built based on an extensive library of predefined training scenarios that replicate corporate network infrastructure and use real-world systems and applications. The scenarios leverage the MITRE ATT&CK knowledge base, including CVE-based vulnerabilities, and can scale to thousands of virtual machines simultaneously.Team-based participation: The training is conducted for teams that have access to their own virtual training environment, with the outcome of the training depending on participants’ performance as a team.Custom scenarios: Organizations can use a scenario composer to create custom scenarios that reflect their specific needs by leveraging a library of systems and applications that serve as scenario building blocks. Existing scenarios can also be modified in order to meet specific training objectives.Training activity features: Training activity effectiveness is improved via the use of several realistic features, such as agent-based cyberattacks, user traffic simulation, and red team automation. The attack library is based on MITRE ATT&CK information, and the attacks are automatically executed via live injections based on sets of configurable IP addresses.Training orchestration: The user interface of the training platform can be used to manage the training activities, with one-click creation of large-scale exercises that use multiple isolated or shared networks, and automated execution of attack injections. The exercises can be in the form of red team versus blue team training, but also in the form of participant competency assessment testing.Scoring and reporting: A rich set of features regarding scoring and reporting is provided. Thus, scoring can be done at individual and team level, as well as per category; a timeline for scoring is also available. Custom performance criteria can also be defined, and the scoring system can be integrated with third-party tools, such as learning management systems.
CYBER RANGES earned several recognitions, for instance, being the official cyber range for International Telecommunication Union (ITU) cybersecurity training exercises. In addition, the platform was endorsed by MITRE ATT&CK, and it can be used to conduct training in relation with the attack techniques defined in the knowledge base. Moreover, NICE Framework work role competency and progression tracking are available.

11.2.3 Academia Cyber RangesIn the academia cyber range category, we include those cyber ranges that are developed and mainly deployed in an academic or research environment. Consequently, the main target audience of these cyber ranges is students, even though some of them are also used to train professionals. In what follows, we will provide a series of representative examples in this cyber range category.11.2.3.1 CyTrONECyTrONE is an integrated cybersecurity training framework that was designed as a flexible and comprehensive solution for cybersecurity training [6, 13]. CyTrONE was designed with a modular architecture that makes it possible to replace or add components as needed, which contributes to the flexibility of the framework. Its modules include a web UI, a management module (named CyTrONE, as well), a cyber range creation module (CyRIS), a scenario progression management module (CyPROM), and so on. Training activities are conducted via the Moodle LMS, which is integrated with the framework by means of another dedicated module (CyLMS). CyTrONE will be examined as a detailed case study in Chap. 12, so readers should refer to that information for more details.
11.2.3.2 KYPO Cyber Range PlatformKYPO Cyber Range Platform (KYPO CRP) is a cloud-based cyber exercise and research platform that enables security experts to emulate computer networks for the purpose of performing hands-on cybersecurity exercises and experiments safely, without the danger of threatening the real network infrastructure [36, 54]. KYPO CRP provides an interactive learning environment that was designed to support multiple simultaneous training sessions, each having their own exercise assignments and learner assessments. The platform covers various cybersecurity training use cases, ranging from individual assignments with step-by-step instructions, or that are to be solved independently by trainees, to long-term team training or gamified training, such as CTF exercises.The management of the training sessions in KYPO CRP is handled via two key modules. The first one, named Training Service, is in charge of the training session life cycle. The second one, Sandbox Service, is responsible for the creation and management of the training environment. The modules rely on a set of three human-readable definition files that describe the training content.Thus, the Training Definition specifies the set of tasks that participants have to solve. It uses a JSON-format description that includes introductory information, training tasks, optional hints or detailed solutions, questionnaires about the exercise, etc. The training environment is described via the Sandbox Definition, which consists of two separate files that use the YAML format. The first file, named Topology Definition, specifies the network topology of the training environment, such as routers, hosts, and network mapping information. The second one, Provisioning Definition, specifies the configuration of the individual host VMs in a format compatible with Ansible, which is employed as software configuration management system.Participants’ activities within the training environment are monitored via software probes that gather activity data on-the-fly and store it for further use. The access to the cyber range is mediated via the KYPO web portal, which supports several types of data visualization and web-based interaction features that enable learning data exploration. These features make possible, for example, the formative assessment of trainees with individual feedback for a particular exercise, but also a summative assessment, that is, overall trainee grading at the end of an instructional unit.To learn more about KYPO CRP, interested readers can consult [7], where KYPO CRP modules are mapped onto a generic cybersecurity training platform model, and the functionality of the platform is evaluated via a capability assessment methodology. A comparative analysis with respect to the CyTrONE cybersecurity training framework that we will present in Chap. 12 is also available in that paper.

11.2.4 General Range ComparisonIn this section, we will compare the main characteristics of the general cyber ranges that we presented so far, for which an overview is displayed in Table 11.
