# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2021 - The goal of CROND was to advance the field of cybersecurity education and training, especially through conducting research on cyber ranges, the network environments that are typically used for the hands-on training activities that any cybersecurity professional must undertake.
This book was conceived as a culmination of our research at CROND and I intend it to be a practical instrument that cybersecurity educators and training experts can use to guide their work. To achieve this goal, the book provides a thorough view on cybersecurity education and training, in which theoretical descriptions are interspersed with practical details. Consequently, readers can gain both the theoretical understanding, and the practical information, needed to develop and conduct cybersecurity training activities.
The first part of the book systematizes all the aspects related to cybersecurity education and training methodologies, starting with technical cybersecurity training for professionals, which is discussed in much detail. Moreover, issues related to IoT security training, and the cybersecurity awareness training targeted at regular IT users, are also mentioned. This makes it possible for readers to understand the requirements of developing effective training activities that help participants learn how to deal appropriately with cybersecurity incidents.
The second part of the book focuses on the presentation of actual cybersecurity training platforms, such as Capture The Flag (CTF) platforms and cyber ranges. This is followed by a detailed case study on the integrated cybersecurity training framework CyTrONE that we developed at CROND, and a discussion of training platform capability assessment. Thus, the second part provides all the practical know-how needed to effectively set up cybersecurity training activities.
I hope that readers will find this book useful when addressing the many challenges related to cybersecurity education and training, and I am looking forward to the progress that their own contributions to this field will bring—a progress that is absolutely necessary to fill the significant cybersecurity workforce gap that we are currently faced with.
Security Relevance Score: 4
Word Count: 375
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

The goal of CROND was to advance the field of cybersecurity education and training, especially through conducting research on cyber ranges, the network environments that are typically used for the hands-on training activities that any cybersecurity professional must undertake.
This book was conceived as a culmination of our research at CROND and I intend it to be a practical instrument that cybersecurity educators and training experts can use to guide their work. To achieve this goal, the book provides a thorough view on cybersecurity education and training, in which theoretical descriptions are interspersed with practical details. Consequently, readers can gain both the theoretical understanding, and the practical information, needed to develop and conduct cybersecurity training activities.
The first part of the book systematizes all the aspects related to cybersecurity education and training methodologies, starting with technical cybersecurity training for professionals, which is discussed in much detail. Moreover, issues related to IoT security training, and the cybersecurity awareness training targeted at regular IT users, are also mentioned. This makes it possible for readers to understand the requirements of developing effective training activities that help participants learn how to deal appropriately with cybersecurity incidents.
The second part of the book focuses on the presentation of actual cybersecurity training platforms, such as Capture The Flag (CTF) platforms and cyber ranges. This is followed by a detailed case study on the integrated cybersecurity training framework CyTrONE that we developed at CROND, and a discussion of training platform capability assessment. Thus, the second part provides all the practical know-how needed to effectively set up cybersecurity training activities.
I hope that readers will find this book useful when addressing the many challenges related to cybersecurity education and training, and I am looking forward to the progress that their own contributions to this field will bring—a progress that is absolutely necessary to fill the significant cybersecurity workforce gap that we are currently faced with.


Razvan Beuran


Nonoichi, Japan

August 2024


Acknowledgements

This book would not have been possible without the support of many people. First and foremost, I would like to thank Prof. Yoichi Shinoda and Prof. Yasuo Tan, who gave me the opportunity to come to JAIST as a postdoc in 2005, and later to return as research associate professor in
