# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 10 - Nevertheless, in some cases, even if the words “cyber range” appeared in the name of a training platform, we decided to exclude it from our presentation if the training activity complexity seemed insufficient from this point of view.For example, Virginia Cyber Range is a cloud-based cybersecurity training platform used by thousands of students and faculty from hundreds of high schools and universities in the Commonwealth of Virginia [52]. However, an examination of the available courses showed that the content seems to be very close to that of online CTF platforms. The same can be said about the U.S. Cyber Range at Virginia Tech, which is a cyber range providing similar albeit paid courses for students and educators all over the U.S. (we do note, however, that more advanced training environments are reportedly planned for Fall 2024 [53]).Some of the cyber ranges introduced in this category, in addition to general cybersecurity training, make it possible to also conduct specialized training activities (e.g., regarding ICS and SCADA). This demonstrates that the breadth of training scope is an important characteristic of a comprehensive training platform.
Security Relevance Score: 2
Word Count: 592
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Nevertheless, in some cases, even if the words “cyber range” appeared in the name of a training platform, we decided to exclude it from our presentation if the training activity complexity seemed insufficient from this point of view.For example, Virginia Cyber Range is a cloud-based cybersecurity training platform used by thousands of students and faculty from hundreds of high schools and universities in the Commonwealth of Virginia [52]. However, an examination of the available courses showed that the content seems to be very close to that of online CTF platforms. The same can be said about the U.S. Cyber Range at Virginia Tech, which is a cyber range providing similar albeit paid courses for students and educators all over the U.S. (we do note, however, that more advanced training environments are reportedly planned for Fall 2024 [53]).Some of the cyber ranges introduced in this category, in addition to general cybersecurity training, make it possible to also conduct specialized training activities (e.g., regarding ICS and SCADA). This demonstrates that the breadth of training scope is an important characteristic of a comprehensive training platform.
11.4.2 Specialized Cyber RangesFor the specialized cyber ranges presented in Sect. 11.3, many of the examples we provided rely on the use of simulation techniques, sometimes in combination with emulation, in order to create the necessary training environment. In some cases, this was done to reduce the construction cost and to increase the experiment scale for the cyber range. In other cases, such as for critical infrastructure, the difficulties related to conducting training on real systems were another deciding factor. Despite the complex nature of such systems, modeling their physical characteristics makes it possible to conduct training in conditions that cannot be realized when using actual systems, for example, because of the possible damage that can occur.However, in the case of ICS/SCADA and critical infrastructure systems, their actual operation is specific to the particular systems used in a given application area. Consequently, when the most realistic type of training is required, we consider that a dedicated cyber range that mimics as closely as possible the real systems, including via physical components, is the most appropriate solution.
11.4.3 Overall RecommendationsAmong the cybersecurity training companies that we have surveyed, SANS Institute has the widest range of training domains via its NetWars training platforms, that encompass both a variety of general cybersecurity training activities, as well as many specialized areas, such as ICS, power grid, and health care. For this reason, we consider that this company represents a good starting point for learners, no matter what their domain of interest may be.Another training provider that covers a wide range of training domains, both for general and specialized training is Cyberbit. Moreover, as mentioned previously, Cyberbit has been designated as one of the leaders of cybersecurity training platforms in the Forrester Cybersecurity Skills and Training Platforms, Q4 2023 report [8], scoring highest in the strategy and current offering categories. Hence, we also recommend Cyberbit as a training provider for various application domains.While the coverage of the specialized training domain is relatively weak, Immersive Labs is another strong contender, with a catalog of thousands of general cybersecurity training exercises. In addition, other methods than cyber range training are available, such as the Cyber Crisis Simulator digital tabletop exercise. Note that Immersive Labs as well has been named a cybersecurity training platform leader in the Forrester Cybersecurity Skills and Training Platforms, Q4 2023 report [8], with an overall evaluation close to that of Cyberbit.

References1.A cyber range training platform for medical organisations and systems security. https://​cordis.​europa.​eu/​project/​id/​
