# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 5 - Using the crossword puzzle interface in CyATP makes solving the quiz more fun, thus ensuring a balance is achieved between learning and entertainment. The crossword puzzle also exercises the reasoning ability and cultivates the concentration of the learners in ways that cannot be achieved via the usual quizzes in typical e-learning platforms.A crossword puzzle titled "CyATP" with clues for "Across" and "Down." The grid shows the word "malware" vertically intersecting with "password" horizontally. Clues include topics like technology, security, and data protection. Notable clues are: "A memorized secret, typically a string of characters, usually used to confirm the identity of a user" for "password," and "Any software intentionally designed to cause damage to a computer" for "malware." The note at the bottom states all answers are lowercase and exclude spaces.Fig. 8.5Example crossword puzzle automatically generated by CyATP based on cloze questions
Security Relevance Score: 4
Word Count: 171
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Using the crossword puzzle interface in CyATP makes solving the quiz more fun, thus ensuring a balance is achieved between learning and entertainment. The crossword puzzle also exercises the reasoning ability and cultivates the concentration of the learners in ways that cannot be achieved via the usual quizzes in typical e-learning platforms.A crossword puzzle titled "CyATP" with clues for "Across" and "Down." The grid shows the word "malware" vertically intersecting with "password" horizontally. Clues include topics like technology, security, and data protection. Notable clues are: "A memorized secret, typically a string of characters, usually used to confirm the identity of a user" for "password," and "Any software intentionally designed to cause damage to a computer" for "malware." The note at the bottom states all answers are lowercase and exclude spaces.Fig. 8.5Example crossword puzzle automatically generated by CyATP based on cloze questions


References1.Beguin E, Besnard S, Cros A, Joannes B, Leclerc-Istria O, Noel A, Roels N, Taleb F, Thongphan J, Alata E, Nicomette V (2019) Computer-security-oriented escape room. IEEE Secur Privacy 17(4):78–
