# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Razvan Beuran - Cybersecurity Education and Training (2025, Springer Nature Singapore) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - In addition, Monitoring can supply data to the Portal for display to Instructors; the information is also typically saved in the Data Storage for further analysis.
Security Relevance Score: 13
Word Count: 5292
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

In addition, Monitoring can supply data to the Portal for display to Instructors; the information is also typically saved in the Data Storage for further analysis.
9.1.2.3 DiscussionAs mentioned already, the core components of our cybersecurity training platform model are an essential part of any training platform. Hence, all training platforms must include these components in one for, or another. Among the core components, however, Training Content and Training Environment are conceptually the most important, since they represent those components that are intrinsically used in the training activity. This is why we will examine them in more detail in the following two sections of this chapter.On the other hand, by their nature, all the support components in our model are optional, as training activities can also be conducted without them. However, some of the components are more important than others in terms of the gain in usability they can provide. The Portal is the most important from this point of view, as without a user-friendly interface it can be difficult to make effective use of a training platform, both for Instructors and Trainees.Education Functions are especially useful in an academic environment, where the main goal of the activity is learning. In contrast, if the main goal of the training platform is skill testing, for example, in a professional environment, such functionality can be omitted. As for Monitoring, it is only required if an in-depth analysis of Trainee actions is desired.


9.2 Training ContentThe training content is arguably the most important aspect of a cybersecurity training platform, since it contains all the information that trainees need in order to be able to learn the target skills. However, to create effective cybersecurity training content, instructors need to possess not only technical knowledge, but also an understanding of education approaches. Otherwise, even if the content is technically sound, not presenting it in an attractive manner may decrease the motivation of the trainees, as discussed already in Sect. 2.​2.​1.​3.This is an important issue because, in practice, cybersecurity training content creators are often simply security experts who were tasked with sharing their knowledge via the training platform. In such cases, developing training content for technical cybersecurity training may pose various challenges. Consequently, in what follows we will provide some guidelines about how to create good cybersecurity training content that is adapted to the characteristics of the trainees.9.2.1 Training Content TypesThe first decision that a cybersecurity training content creator needs to make is about content type. Although the training approaches can differ among various cybersecurity training platforms, training content is typically defined in one of the following three manners that will be discussed next:As a quiz made of independent tasks or challenges.In the form of a scenario composed of sequential tasks.Without following any structure.
9.2.1.1 Quiz-Based Training ContentFor quiz-based training, content is organized in the form of questions for which the participants must provide an answer, typically by executing actions and commands in the training environment. The questions are usually grouped by category (such as web, network, cryptography, etc.), but are independent from each other; hence, the order in which they are addressed does not matter.This type of training content makes it possible to easily assign a score to trainees based on whether they have answered correctly or not the included questions. Moreover, public scoreboards are often integrated in the platforms using this type of content as a gamification element to increase the motivation of the participants.Quiz-based training content is often found in CTF-style competitions. As an example of a training platform making use of this type of content, we mention the Facebook CTF open-source platform that was released on GitHub (but which has been archived in 2020 and is now read-only) [4]. This type of training content is also called Jeopardy content due to the format similarity with the popular American television game show with the same name. We note that platforms supporting CTFs are a very important type of cybersecurity training platform, and they will be discussed in more detail in Chap. 10.The main advantage of using quiz-based training content is that the content itself is very easy to create, as each question can be treated independently from all the others, so content can be developed even by multiple creators simultaneously. However, trainee motivation is only stimulated from a competitive perspective, as solving the questions is simply a matter of using the right technical skills. Hence, no higher-level emotional involvement is present.
9.2.1.2 Scenario-Based Training ContentFor scenario-based training, training content is organized as tasks that are related to each other, which is the main difference with respect to quiz-based training. As a consequence, scenario-based training tasks typically need to be addressed in the order in which they are presented in order for the participant to be able to progress through the training activity.In addition to the tasks themselves, scenario-based training includes a story-like description that presents to trainees a fictional background for the training (i.e., the scenario), such as them being secret agents charged with an important mission that involves solving the training tasks. This kind of fictional stories make the training more relatable and fun to conduct from a trainee perspective.As the trainees advance through the training scenario, they typically have to input some proof of their progress, such as the results of investigative actions that they took in the training environment. The score trainees are assigned when the training activity ends typically indicates how much they have managed to advance through the scenario storyline.The NetWars family of training programs offered by SANS Institute represents an example of a gamified training experience that uses scenario-based training content [8]. For instance, the training program named NetWars Core Tournament covers a wide-range of technical topics, such as Linux and Windows command line, malware reverse engineering, firewall configuration, etc. The interesting part, however, is that the training follows a scenario specifically designed to motivate the trainees. In particular, NetWars Core Version 9 used the following storyline:A group of young friends are facing terrible danger, possibly associates with the local Hackins National Laboratory. You can help! Help defend our heroes—find out who’s behind all this and maybe even strike back.Creating scenario-based training content is more difficult compared to quiz content, as creators must intertwine the technical cybersecurity elements of the training with the storyline in a plausible manner. The potential emotional involvement of the trainees in the story is what is aimed for in return, and it constitutes the main advantage of scenario-based training.
9.2.1.3 Unstructured Training ContentThe other type of cybersecurity training content is the unstructured one. For this type of training, trainees proceed freely with the activity based on some preliminary information they receive from the instructors. This type of training content is mainly associated with training activities that have as goal exercising the general attack and/or defense skills of the trainees, instead of specific technical skills as in the previous types of training. Consequently, the unstructured training content is most suitable for trainees who already have a sufficiently high cybersecurity skill level.A typical illustration of unstructured training are the red team/blue team exercises, where trainees are assigned as members of one of the two teams. Trainees who are part of the blue team must respond to malicious actions by defending a system from the attacks conducted by the read team. In contrast, trainees who are part of the red team have the role of attacking the system defended by the blue team. An example in this category are the so-called “live fire” red team vs. blue team exercises that are possible using the SimSpace Cyber Force Platform, which provides an isolated environment for building the real-world skills of security teams [9].A related type of cybersecurity training is the so-called king of the hill training. In this case the trainees, either individually or as a team, must use both their attack and defense skills, at the same time defending their own system, and attacking the systems managed by the other participants. An example of this type of training is the King of the Hill (KoTH) competitive hacking game made available online on the TryHackMe browser-based cybersecurity training platform [11]. In this implementation, participants compete against 10 other persons to compromise a target machine, and then they must patch its vulnerabilities in order to stop the other players from gaining access. This type of training fundamentally makes it possible for trainees to exercise both their attack and defense skills in a single activity. We note that the Facebook CTF platform mentioned in the context of quiz-based training also supports this type of exercises, in which participating teams compete with each other to gain control over target systems named bases [4].For unstructured training, the training content is less related to learning, as typically there are not many educational materials included. Instead, the focus is laid on the training environment that needs to be created for the training activity, and the types of vulnerabilities to be included, that are related to the target skills that the hands-on practice should focus on. Some support content can be included, however, to assist the trainees. In the case of the Facebook CTF challenges mentioned above, for example, hints can be added to bases (either free or with a penalty associated to them) in order to make it easier for unexperienced trainees to get control of them.

9.2.2 Content Type ComparisonIn Table 9.1 we analyze the main characteristics of each type of cybersecurity training content. This kind of analysis can be used as a guideline for instructors when making decisions about what is the most appropriate type of content to create for a given training purpose, or what is the most suitable type of training activity required for improving a certain kind of target cybersecurity skill.Table 9.1Comparison of training content characteristics depending on content typeCharacteristicQuiz-basedScenario-basedUnstructuredTask typeIndependent tasksTask sequenceImplicit tasksSkill typeSpecific individual skillsIndividual skillsVarious skillsParticipantsLow-to-medium experienceMedium experienceExperiencedMotivationBasic gamificationAdvanced gamificationHigh involvementRealismLow realismMedium realismHigh realism
Task Type The first important difference between the forms of training content that we discussed refers to the type of tasks included in the training. These tasks are stated independently from each other for quiz-based training and organized in an ordered sequence for scenario-based training, but in both cases, they are explicitly defined. On the other hand, tasks are typically implicit—such as attack or defense/forensics—for unstructured training.Skill Type The type of skills that each type of training content addresses is also different. Quiz-based training usually focuses on very specific individual skills (e.g., how to solve a certain cryptographic puzzle). Meanwhile, scenario-based training focuses on more generic individual skills and skill combinations that need to be chained together in order to solve the given task, thus leading to a more realistic type of training. Lastly, unstructured training addresses various types of skills, both as individual skills related attack and defense/forensics techniques, and in the team skill category, as needed to accomplish the realistic system compromise and defense goals of the training activity.Participants Regarding the typical participants in the three types of training, quiz-based ones are usually attended by young participants with low-to-medium skills that want to improve their abilities. An exception, however, is represented by high-level competitions, such as DEF CON [2], in which this type of content represents a very easy manner of evaluating the raw cybersecurity skills of an individual or team. Scenario-based training typically requires participants with at least medium experience, since the tasks to be solved are more complex. As for unstructured training, due to its nature, only experienced participants can face its challenges and fully benefit from it.Motivation Next, we will discuss the features aimed at increasing the motivation of the participants, especially via the gamification features corresponding to each type of training content. Quiz-based training only makes possible the inclusion of basic features, such as scoreboards. The storyline included in scenario-based training adds more advanced features, such as motivating the participants to become emotionally involved in the training via the associated scenario, which also serves as a way to establish parallels to real-world situations, thus improving the effectiveness of the training. As for unstructured training, the very time-sensitive and competitive nature of the training involvement stimulates participant involvement even more.Realism Based on all of the above, we conclude that the realism of quiz-based training is the lowest, since only raw technical security skills are targeted. Scenario-based training has a medium level of realism, as the scenarios used can mimic real-life situations, for example, as encountered by a system administrator. As for unstructured training, it is the most realistic of the approaches from a training content perspective, since it puts participants in conditions that are similar to a real-world scenario, where there is no predefined “script” they can follow.
9.2.3 Education AspectsEducation is a very important aspect of cybersecurity training activities. Thus, there are two main roles of a cybersecurity training activity: 1.Teaching the trainees concepts and skills related to the topics targeted by the training activity. 2.Testing trainees’ ability to solve the corresponding tasks included in the training. 
Most cybersecurity training platforms cover thoroughly the testing aspects. This can be done by quantifying trainee performance, for example, by scoring trainees based on their answers to quiz questions. Or it can be done by determining their success or failure in conducting a defense or attack exercise. To some extent, some platforms may not even include any education features, and delegate the learning aspects to the implicit effects of hands-on practice. However, we argue that the teaching role of a training platform is at least as important as the testing one. Consequently, education mechanisms that support the learning process are a significant characteristic of training platforms.In some cases, it can be considered that trainees are supposed to learn the necessary concepts and skills outside the training platform, for example through individual study, or via lectures that are provided by the institution organizing the training. There is, nevertheless, a clear advantage of having the education capabilities integrated directly into the training platform, as the information can be presented together with the task at hand. This is more convenient for trainees, who can refer to it when attempting to solve the task, which helps memorizing the information in context.To implement such capabilities, the Education Functions component of our training platform model is typically used. However, this is only the technical side of the issue, as the training content is what actually supports the corresponding education features; hence, the role it plays in the learning process is critical. In what follows, we will review as examples some possible education capabilities, and the manner in which they can be implemented in a cybersecurity training platform.9.2.3.1 Task HintsA typical way to achieve introduce basic education capabilities in a training platform is to associate hints with the questions and tasks included in the training content. The hints can be displayed on demand by trainees when they are not able to address a particular question themselves. Usually, multiple hints are made available to support the learning process, and trainees can display them one after the other until they become able to solve the task. This is made possible by the fact that the first hints are more generic in nature, to provide only an overall idea for solving the task, then more specific hints follow, to also support the trainees that lack the actual technical understanding for solving it. Since trainees are able to immediately put the information provided via hints into practice, they are able to better understand and memorize it for future use.We note that for some training activities revealing hints can lead to a penalty being subtracted from the overall score of the trainees, as a mechanism to differentiate between those who were able to solve the task by themselves and those who had to make use of the hints. Nevertheless, even if a penalty is applied, choosing to view the hints is beneficial in case trainees can find no other way of making progress. This is because becoming stuck in the training activity not only has a negative psychological impact, potentially reducing their motivation, but can also impede the progress through the training activity, especially in scenario-based training, in which tasks are dependent on each other, thus causing an overall lower score.From a technical perspective, the Education Functions component of the platform simply needs to include a mechanism for displaying the hints (buttons, etc.), and a way to account for the hints being displayed in case a penalty is to be applied. The actual content of the hint is developed by Instructors and is stored together with the Training Content in the Data Storage module.
9.2.3.2 Adaptive LearningThe second education capability that we will discuss is of a more complex nature compared to task hints. In particular, we will examine the use of adaptive learning features. Adaptive learning, also known as intelligent tutoring, is an education approach that provides customized learning activities that take into account the specific needs of learners. To achieve this goal, the interaction of the learners with the training content must be modeled in detail, for example, by using the following elements [6]:A set of training materials that are used to teach the target concepts to the learners (also called the expert model).Information about the learners, such as domain knowledge and learning performance, used to improve the effectiveness of the training process (also known as the learner model or the student model).A mechanism through which the two previous models are combined in order to decide what training content is displayed to the learners (typically named the instructive model).
The training materials in the above model are basically the cybersecurity training content in our discussion. What is specific is the use of the learner model, which aims to capture the skill level of each trainee. This model is constructed based on the answers of each individual, iteratively. The training content that is presented at a certain moment is selected by the instructive model based on its level of difficulty in relation to the presumed skill level of the trainee. By adapting the training content to the trainee needs, it becomes possible to create a learning experience that is at the same time engaging and effective, as it was demonstrated in [10].From an implementation perspective, to support adaptive learning the Training Content must be designed so that information regarding task difficulty is included. Such information can be determined in advance by the instructors creating the content, can be estimated through experimentation with groups of learners, or even computed via a combination of the two methods. The Education Functions component implementation is more challenging though, as both a method for building the learner model, and the instructive model mechanism must be integrated into it.


9.3 Training EnvironmentIn addition to training content, the training environment is the other essential component of a cybersecurity training platform, without each no training activity can take place. The main aspects that need to be discussed in this context are first of all the range of technical solutions that are available in order to implement a training environment. Then, the respective advantages and disadvantages of these solutions must be examined, as their characteristics need to be considered carefully when deciding what is the most suitable solution for a particular training platform, for example, depending on the type of participants and target skills, etc.9.3.1 Training Environment TypesTraining environments are made of a collection of hosts, and their network connections, if any, that trainees use for hands-on practice. There are two ways in which such a setup can be implemented from a technical perspective, as follows:Physical environments.Virtual environments.
9.3.1.1 Physical EnvironmentsThe most basic training environments are those made of physical computing devices interconnected by actual communication networks. The network connectivity in this case can be realized either via wireless technologies, such as Wi-Fi, or via regular wired network technologies, such as Ethernet. In general, wired communication is preferred within the training environment, so as to avoid the possible communication issues that can occur due to wireless interference.When using physical environments, the setup procedure is relatively straightforward, as only standard host and network administration techniques are required to prepare the training environment. Consequently, only fundamental technical skills that are mastered by most computer science graduates are sufficient to configure the training environment.Another advantage of using physical environments in a training platform is that all the computing resources of the devices are dedicated to training purposes, hence maximum performance characteristics can be ensured. In addition, the setup of the individual devices can be initially conducted independently of the other parts of the training environment, then they can be put together in later stages to form the desired training environment.The main disadvantage of using physical devices is related to the cost of acquiring and managing such dedicated devices (unless they are inexpensive devices to start with). Such a cost can be amortized over time if the training platform is used intensively, but if it is only used for occasional training this type of solution may not make much economic sense.With respect to the type of computing devices used to implement the training environment, we distinguish two main classes:High-performance servers.Small form factor (SFF) devices.High-Performance Servers The easiest solution for creating a cybersecurity training environment made of physical devices is to use servers or other high-performance computers that were purchased for this reason, or that were previously acquired and are repurposed for cybersecurity training activities. This solution ensures that enough dedicated computing power can be made available even for the most demanding of the training scenarios.However, if the training activity does not require a large amount of dedicated resources, there is a possibility of resource waste, and the servers will not be used at their maximum capacity. Therefore, we consider that using dedicated high-performance servers is more suitable as the infrastructure for virtualized training environments, as it will be discussed in Sect. 9.3.1.2.Small Form Factor Devices A more cost-effective solution is to use SFF computing devices, such as the Raspberry Pi family of compact single-board computers [7]. Not only this type of devices are significantly less expensive compared to high-performance servers, but they are also much easier to manipulate and transport.One can imagine, for instance, the case of a series of training events organized in an itinerant fashion at various locations. The instructors can then set up the SFF devices in advance at whatever place is convenient for them, including at their home. Then, they simply need to bring the devices to the event venue and connect them to the network infrastructure for integration with the overall system. This approach is used, for example, in some of the SECCON Beginners CTF sessions organized by the Japan Network Security Association (JNSA) [5].As for disadvantages, SFF devices have limited computing capabilities, hence they are only suitable for simpler training exercises. This is why they are used often in training activities organized for beginners, as the one mentioned above, where a complex training environment is required. Another potential issue is that some of the SFF devices use custom operating systems (OSs), such as Raspberry Pi OS in the case of Raspberry Pi devices, which can represent a challenge for unexperienced instructors. However, these customs OSs are often based on the Unix operating system (in particular the Debian GNU/Linux distribution for Raspberry Pi OS). Consequently, most standard host administration skills can be applied to configure them, lowering the severity of the issue.
9.3.1.2 Virtual EnvironmentsThe second type of training environments used in typical cybersecurity training platforms are those made of virtual devices interconnected by virtual networks. The virtual devices are often instantiated on top of physical servers provisioned by the training organizer by relying on standard virtualization technologies, such as virtual machines or containers. For training environments of relatively low complexity, it is also possible to deploy the environment on the devices that trainees already own, such as their own laptops. This reduces the server provisioning and management requirements on the organizer side. As for the network connectivity, it is typically realized by leveraging the functionality of the virtualization technologies in this respect, which make it possible to create virtual networking components.The main advantage of using virtual environments in a training platform is that the scalability and cost effectiveness of building the training environment are greatly improved. Thus, adding one or more virtual devices into a training environment does not translate into a hardware purchase; instead, only changes to the environment setup procedure are required. Similarly, provisioning for more or less trainees can simply be done by increasing or decreasing the number of training environment instances that are created on a given physical server, in an elastic manner. Consequently, more physical servers need to be acquired only when the cumulative resources of the existing servers become insufficient for the scale of the training activity.However, using virtualization technologies introduces an overhead both regarding environment setup and computing resources. Concerning environment setup, the necessary tools and skills needed to create virtual environments are different from standard administration skills. Nevertheless, given the popularity of virtualization technologies in recent years, we consider that most specialists have at least some limited experience with them. As for the computing resource overhead, since part of the physical server resources must be used to run the virtualization technologies, the amount of resources available for the training environment instances is reduced. Nevertheless, in normal conditions, this overhead is relatively low compared to the requirements of the training environment, hence it can usually be ignored.Next let us examine the two types of virtualization technologies that are currently available, namely:Virtual machines.Containers.Virtual Machines Virtual machines (VMs) are a virtualized computer that is run on a physical server. A VM is no different from an actual computer in terms of CPU, memory, or disks, but they are all virtualized, albeit often via mapping to the real CPU, memory and disks of the physical server that hosts the VM. An important property of a VM is that it is separated from the physical server OS, meaning that the software inside a VM does not interfere with the physical server functionality. Consequently, multiple VMs can be run on a single physical server independently from each other.The main advantage of VMs is that they can be used to run almost any OS, no matter what the OS of the physical server that hosts them is. Virtual network infrastructure can also be defined relatively easily. On the other hand, since VMs must emulate the functionality of the computer they are representing, they are a relatively heavyweight form of virtualization technology. Similarly, since the VMs use full copies of OSs, the image files that are used to distribute VMs can be rather large in size, typically are least several gigabytes.An example of virtual machine technology is that provided by VMware [12], which makes available a suite of tools that make possible the deployment of VMs both on regular end-user hardware (e.g., laptop and desktop PCs), and also on cloud infrastructure servers for large-scale deployments. In addition, the VMware virtualization tools have capabilities of creating a virtual network infrastructure for the deployed VMs, such as virtual switches, and virtual network adapters.Containers The other form of virtualization are containers, a form of isolated user spaces which can be used to run software applications independently of the other programs running on that server infrastructure. Consequently, for an individual container perspective, it appears as the application runs in an isolated manner, with its own settings and libraries. However, all containers that run concurrently on a server share a common operating system. Container portability derives from the fact that, since it is self-contained, a container instance can be moved to a different server infrastructure, as long as the same containerization technology is present.The main advantages of containers are their lightweight nature and the fact that they can be packaged in a relatively small standalone file that can be easily deployed on a different physical server. However, the tools required to manage the containers can be quite complex and difficult to learn for beginners. Some restrictions on the type of OS used in the container also apply. Moreover, some of the tools used in cybersecurity training, such as firewalls, rely on the OS kernel functionality. This may render them unusable in containers or may require root privileges for execution; providing such privileges to trainees, however, may not always be feasible, for example, when using shared PCs for training.One of the most widely used container technology is made available by Docker [3], which provides a complete set of modules and software tools that make it possible to create, manage and run containers. Docker image objects are read-only templates used to distribute the containers, and also to create the processes that represent the actual running containers. Network objects make possible for the applications running in containers to communicate with each other, with the OS on which they are hosted, and with the outside world. However, complex network topologies cannot be built among the containers.

9.3.2 Environment Type ComparisonGiven the various choices that exist for creating training environments, we will analyze the main differences between those choices from a cybersecurity training perspective. The discussion is summarized in Table 9.2, where the first characteristic, environment type, is used to remind the nature of each technology.Table 9.2Comparison of the main characteristics of the technologies used to create training environmentsCharacteristicServersSFF devicesVMsContainersEnvironment typePhysicalPhysicalVirtualVirtualScalabilityLowMediumHighVery highUsabilityVery highHighMediumMediumFlexibilityLowMediumVery highHigh
Scalability The first property we examine is scalability, which is very important for training environments, as limitations in environment size impose constraints on the type of training activities that can be conducted. Physical server-based environments have the lowest scalability given the high costs associated with acquiring them.SFF devices have better scalability characteristics, since they are relatively cheap; accordingly, acquiring more devices, as needed, is easy. Nevertheless, they are still physical devices that need to be managed; hence, training scale still cannot be extended past a certain limit.As for the virtual environments, both VM and container technologies provide high scalability properties, albeit containers being even more scalable due to their lightweight nature. Another relevant characteristic, cost effectiveness, follows the same trend with scalability, so we will not discuss it separately.Usability When considering usability, on the other hand, the training environments based on physical devices are easiest to configure, since only standard administration skills are needed. The physical server solution has a slight edge, however, since SFF devices may have custom OSs that require additional technical skills. As for virtual environment technologies, both VMs and containers require specialized tools for managing them, hence usability is only medium.We note that when referring to usability in this context we consider the perspective of instructors, i.e., those who must create the training environments. From the perspective of trainees, training environments built using all the above technologies are functionally equivalent, so there are no usability differences between them from this point of view.Flexibility The next characteristic that we examine is flexibility. Using physical servers leads to a low flexibility, as it is difficult to change the properties of the training environment, especially in terms of network topology.The small size of SFF devices makes it easier to configure training environments based on them in a flexible manner, but our overall evaluation places this technology at a medium level, since the need to create physical connections can cause some hurdles. Moreover, relying on physical environments makes it impossible to use trainee devices for deployment, further reducing the flexibility.On the other hand, virtualization technologies offer a much higher flexibility, with the highest level being for VMs, for which the range of choices in terms of OSs and virtual network configuration is superior to that of containers.

References1.Beuran R, Vykopal J, Belajová D, Čeleda P, Tan Y, Shinoda Y (2023) Capability assessment methodology and comparative analysis of cybersecurity training platforms. Comput Secur 128:
