# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Shilpa Mahajan_ Mehak Khurana_ Vania Vieira Estrela - Applying Artificial Intelligence in Cybersecurity Analytics and Cyber Threat Detection (2024, WILEY) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2014 - Recognized by Cisco Networking Academy for her active participation over five years, Dr. Mahajan’s dedication and expertise continue to shape the academic landscape in the fields of Cybersecurity and Information Security.
Security Relevance Score: 5
Word Count: 220
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:31

---

Recognized by Cisco Networking Academy for her active participation over five years, Dr. Mahajan’s dedication and expertise continue to shape the academic landscape in the fields of Cybersecurity and Information Security.


Dr. Mehak Khurana is an accomplished and dedicated Certified Ethical Hacker (CEHv11) with an illustrious career spanning over 13 years in the fields of research and teaching. Dr. Mehak Khurana is currently leveraging her extensive expertise as an Associate Professor at the NorthCap University, contributing to the academic and practical realms of Cybersecurity and Information Security. Her academic journey is marked by exceptional achievements, including the attainment of a Ph.D. degree specializing in Information Security and Cryptography. Complementing this, she was honored with a silver medal for her M.Tech degree in Information Technology from USICT, GGSIPU. Her specialization lies in Cybersecurity, Information Security, and Cryptography. She has left an indelible mark on academia through her prolific publications in renowned journals, conferences books, and patents. She demonstrated her commitment to aligning education with industry best practices; she introduced and designed cutting‐edge courses in Penetration Testing, Secure Coding, Software Vulnerabilities, and Web and Mobile Security. Her mentorship extends to guiding B.Tech., M.Tech. projects, and Ph.D. scholars, nurturing the potential of future leaders in the field. She convened the International Conference on Cyber Security and Digital Forensics in collaboration with Springer in
