# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Shilpa Mahajan_ Mehak Khurana_ Vania Vieira Estrela - Applying Artificial Intelligence in Cybersecurity Analytics and Cyber Threat Detection (2024, WILEY) - libgen.li
Chapter: 4002 - Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in print may not be available in electronic formats. For more information about Wiley products, visit our web site at www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging‐in‐Publication Data Applied for:
Hardback ISBN: 9781394196449
Cover Design: WileyCover Image: © Yuichiro Chino/Getty Images
Security Relevance Score: 7
Word Count: 333
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:31

---

Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in print may not be available in electronic formats. For more information about Wiley products, visit our web site at www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging‐in‐Publication Data Applied for:
Hardback ISBN: 9781394196449
Cover Design: WileyCover Image: © Yuichiro Chino/Getty Images









 
 
This work is dedicated to the cybersecurity professionals, academicians, researchers, and enthusiasts who strive to make the digital world a safer place for all. Dedicated to those on the front lines of cybersecurity, tirelessly safeguarding our digital landscapes, and to the relentless pursuit of knowledge that fuels our collective defense against evolving threats. Their commitment inspired the editors to push their boundaries of understanding and fortify the resilience of interconnected society.










About the Editors




Dr. Shilpa Mahajan is a distinguished Certified Ethical Hacker (CEHv11) and Cisco Certified Instructor with a notable career spanning over 16 years in research and education. She is currently serving as an Associate Professor at the NorthCap University. Dr. Mahajan holds a Ph.D. in Wireless Sensor Networks from Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, and graduated with distinction from Punjab Engineering College, Chandigarh. Her extensive contributions include authoring numerous papers published in prestigious international journals, books, conferences, and holding patents. In her current role, she guides doctoral scholars and successfully supervises M.Tech and B.Tech projects. Dr. Mahajan has designed courses focusing on Computer Networks, Network Security, and Cryptography. She actively participates in various academic activities, serving as a resource person for Faculty Development Programs (FDPs), workshops, guest lectures, invited talks, and panel discussions. Dr. Mahajan’s expertise is underscored by her proactive involvement in chairing sessions at conferences, highlighting her standing within the academic community. Notably, she coordinated the ATAL FDP on Web Security in 2022 and organized EDPs for CCNA Modules. Remarkably, she has contributed as an editor for esteemed publishers including Springer, CRC Press, Wiley, and several others. Her contributions extend to the establishment of a Cisco lab at the NorthCap University, Gurgaon, in January
