# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Shilpa Mahajan_ Mehak Khurana_ Vania Vieira Estrela - Applying Artificial Intelligence in Cybersecurity Analytics and Cyber Threat Detection (2024, WILEY) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2 - 2 presents the existing work for detection of Botnet attacks. Section 2.3 discusses about the botnet architecture, botnet life cycle, and different botnet detection techniques. Section 2.4 describes the methodology adopted to perform this work. Section 2.5 discusses the experimental setup followed by results and discussion in Section 2.6. Section 2.7 finally concludes the work.
Security Relevance Score: 4
Word Count: 672
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:31

---

2 presents the existing work for detection of Botnet attacks. Section 2.3 discusses about the botnet architecture, botnet life cycle, and different botnet detection techniques. Section 2.4 describes the methodology adopted to perform this work. Section 2.5 discusses the experimental setup followed by results and discussion in Section 2.6. Section 2.7 finally concludes the work.


2.2 Literature Review
Recently, many studies have shown that ML and deep learning are effective in detecting botnet attacks. Some studies also look for the essential attributes of a botnet that may assist to differentiate between normal traffic and an attack. Feizollah et al. [6] evaluated the five classifiers K‐nearest neighbor (KNN), multi‐layer perceptron (MLP), decision tree (DT), support vector machine (SVM), and Naïve Bayes (NB) for identifying the Android‐based malware on the IoT network. They used the three important features among various network‐based features. Authors claimed that the KNN classifiers perform better among all five classifiers. Stevanovic and Pedersen [7] investigated how botnet recognition can be accomplished with high exactness by utilizing directed artificial intelligence (AI). They, first and foremost, proposed a botnet identification framework that utilizes stream‐based traffic investigation and directed AI as a device for distinguishing botnets. They then, at that point, continue to test exhibitions of eight of the main AI calculations (machine learning algorithms – MLAs) for grouping botnets traffic.
One of the studies examined the utilization and viability of AI in recognizing botnets. Authors examined the security features used in the existing solutions available in the literature and the associated problems with the existing solutions. They analyzed the existing security features with the help of different ML algorithms [8]. In another study, authors utilized these methods for drawing and creating information through an IoT organization. They applied new information to investigate various qualities of an attack, for example, network addresses, physical layer addresses, package size, and so on [9].
Khraisat et al. [10] introduced a hybrid‐based system for identifying the IoT attacks. Authors compared the proposed technique with the other existing techniques, and they claimed that the proposed technique gives higher accuracy among all, and it also helped to reduce the false alarm rates.
In contemporary work, authors introduced a new labeled dataset over the IoT botnet network traffic. They utilized up to 83 IoT devices and deployed real malware for generating this labeled dataset. Authors validated the dataset by applying both supervised and unsupervised ML algorithms [11]. They claimed that the dataset is effective and now available as a MedBIoT dataset. In another study, authors used the SVM‐based model for detecting the IoT‐based botnets. Authors applied the Grey Wolf Optimization (GWO) for optimizing the hyperparameters. Authors claimed the proposed model took less detection time as compared to the existing models [12].
Hariri et al. [13] described a new thread for IoT‐based home security systems. Authors discussed few prevention and detection techniques for preventing IoT attacks. Tuan et al. [14] applied the numerous ML techniques for identifying the distributed denial‐of‐service (DDoS) IoT botnet attacks. They have considered two datasets for their experimental work. Authors claimed that among two datasets KDD99 has shown better performance with all the applied algorithms. Hoang and Vu [15] proposed an assessment on botnet recognition model utilizing AI calculations in contrast with peculiarity‐based botnet location strategies. Authors applied different classifiers namely KNN, RF, and NB to make classification among genuine and botnet‐created domain names. Authors used the domain‐based features to further improve the alarm rates.


2.3 Botnet Architecture
According to their architectural styles, the individual bots that make up a botnet can be divided into three groups [16]. This study discusses a few techniques for categorizing botnet architectures, along with their benefits and drawbacks.

Centralized architecture: The simplest for the botmaster to control and administer. One central location known as the command‐and‐control server is where the botmaster controls and manages all the bots in a botnet under centralized architecture (C&C server). In this architecture, all the bots receive commands from a single location known as the C&C server and report to it as illustrated in Figure 2.
