# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Shilpa Mahajan_ Mehak Khurana_ Vania Vieira Estrela - Applying Artificial Intelligence in Cybersecurity Analytics and Cyber Threat Detection (2024, WILEY) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - HCC is close to HCI and information science, being commonly involved with systems and practices utilizing technology, while HCI is more focused on ICT ergonomics and its usability. Information science aims at practices enclosing the collection, manipulation, and information usage.
Security Relevance Score: 5
Word Count: 755
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:31

---

HCC is close to HCI and information science, being commonly involved with systems and practices utilizing technology, while HCI is more focused on ICT ergonomics and its usability. Information science aims at practices enclosing the collection, manipulation, and information usage.


Figure 12.1 Convergence between human‐centered computing and AI‐HCI within a process cycle.


HCC investigators and other staff frequently comprise folks from disciplines, e.g., engineering, computer science, anthropology, humanities, psychology, cognitive science, sociology, communication studies, graphic projects, and industrial design. They may emphasize comprehending humans as beings and in social cliques by looking at the forms they embrace and organizing their existences around ICT. Others concentrate on planning and developing new ICT.
HCC aims to bridge the gaps between the countless disciplines involved with CPSs’ designs and implementations that maintain and strengthen human activities [27, 28]. In the interim, it covers a methodology set for any field employing computers in which individuals directly interact with devices or CPSs via ICTs. HCC takes into account particular, social, and cultural facets and addresses matters like information design, human knowledge interaction, HCI, human‐human collaboration, and relationships between ICT, art, social, and cultural subjects [27, 28].
The “National Science Foundation” deems HCC developments the same as “a 3‐D space incorporating humans, computing machines, and environments” [29]. Consistent with the NSF, anthropology embraces research that attends to individual needs, goal‐oriented teams, and the social order as an unstructured pool of connected persons. The computer dimension brings immovable computing equipment pieces, mobile devices, and computational systems of visual/audio gadgets into the real world. The environmental dimension involves discrete computational apparatuses, mixed reality, and immersive virtual environments [29]. Some HCC themes are listed.

Problem‐solving in distributed environments across Internet‐established systems, grids, and information networks relying on sensors, actuators, mobile gadgets, and wearable information appliances.
Multimedia and multimodal interfaces employ combinations of audio, written text, illustrations, gesture, motion, touch, etc., by folks and equipment to interconnect. Intelligent interfaces, consumer modeling, data visualization, and content adaptation must accommodate different display traits, modalities, bandwidth, and latency.
Multi‐agent systems control and orchestrate actions to solve complex shortcomings in distributed environments from multiple domains, like disaster response teams, education, e‐commerce, and healthy aging.
Models for efficient computer‐intermediated human‐human interaction under multiple constrictions (e.g., cooperation between high‐ and low‐bandwidth networks, video conferencing, etc.).
Designation of multimedia semantic structures to sustain cross‐modal input and output.
Specialized solutions to tackle the unique prerequisites of particular communities.
Collaborative systems that assist knowledge‐demanding and dynamic exchanges for innovation and smartness generation through organizational frontiers, national borders, and specialized fields.
Novel tactics to assist and enhance social interaction, including innovative ideas like social orthotics, affective computing, and experience capture.
More studies of how social organizations are necessary, as is in the case of governmental agencies or corporations. Elaborating better responses to and shaping new information technologies’ insertion significantly advances scientific understanding and technical design.
Knowledge‐driven HCI exploiting ontologies to address semantic vagueness and mutual behaviors between humans and computers. Both sides understand things differently.
HC semantic relatedness measures employ human power to estimate the semantic connection between perceptions.

HC systems, often called HCSs, are specifically developed to cater to HCC [9]. The HCI arena primarily concerns itself with the interactive systems’ conceptualization and development in relation to human activities. The “Committee on Computing, Information, and Communication” (CCIC) [30] under the “National Science and Technology Council” [31, 32] has recognized human‐centered systems (HCS) as a constituent of a “high‐performance computing program” [33, 34]. Human‐centered automation can be employed as a word to refer to HCSs. HCSs are planned grounded on the analysis of human tasks. These arrangements are envisioned to assist and monitor human performance, concentrating on maximizing anthropological benefits [9].
Moreover, HCSs are constructed to consider human talents and can adjust readily to evolving human demands [31, 32]. Still, when labeling a system’s parts, reflecting on four human‐centeredness components becomes paramount: (a) the analysis of structures necessitates an examination of the tricky nature of the targeted social clique, as well as (b) the diverse social units encompassing work and information. Hence, one should accentuate that human‐centeredness is not an intrinsic systemic constituent but a paramount process in which stakeholders associated with a specific system aid in gauging and supplying feedback on the “quality of experience” (QoE) and expected vs. obtained benefits [16, 35, 36]. The fundamental system architecture should accurately reflect the realistic bond between beings and machines. The motive and intended viewership of the CPS are carefully planned to explicitly demonstrate the design, appraisal, and use case components [37] as in Figure 12.
