# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Shilpa Mahajan_ Mehak Khurana_ Vania Vieira Estrela - Applying Artificial Intelligence in Cybersecurity Analytics and Cyber Threat Detection (2024, WILEY) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - The main motive behind adopting it was to simplify the data and to transform it in the way that it can be easily used by the algorithm in use. The proposition employed a model that categorizes vehicles into different types such as 4‐wheeler, 2‐wheeler, and 3‐wheeler. This was accomplished by utilizing a neural network model on the input obtained after the pre‐processing stage.
In [11], the author reviewed past research and devised a system that uses a genetic algorithm to obtain a high degree of accuracy. The algorithm’s main goal is to optimize the input in order to provide a desirable output. Background subtraction was applied to create the image foreground and to transform the input data into a frame. This procedure is viewed as pre‐processing stage, and a genetic set of rules were utilized in order to ascertain whether a violation actually happened. According to the results, deploying a genetic algorithm enhanced the inputted initiatives and generated the best accurate algorithm. The traffic rule contravention detection system employed the Haar tool for identifying and capturing those vehicles that were breaking the rules.
The tool comprised numerous files and folders in XML format. To begin with, positive and negative images were considered, where the positive images contained the required object while negative ones did not. In the next stage, a classifier was trained to identify vector files that had a combination of both types of images. In the final step, a folder was created and loaded with files ranging from 0 to N−1. This approach ensured that the classifier used was fully trained and ready to use. The process commenced with the visualization of an image from the footage, followed by the use of a genetic algorithm to determine if a particular vehicle is breaking the law. Prior to feeding the image into the model, the frame in which it was captured is isolated from the main frame, and the image is converted to black and white. These steps enable the genetic algorithm to accurately detect traffic rule violations.
In [12], a study introduced a traffic rule violation detection system based on machine learning. Its purpose was to identify a vehicle’s license plate in inclement weather such as smog or rain, as well as to function with low‐quality images captured in dim lighting conditions that include low contrast and blurriness. The research involved six stages, starting by obtaining an image from a camera and resizing it to a smaller dimension, followed by the identification of the license plate location, segmentation, and saving the image in a specified format.
The CNN algorithm was used to detect whether motorcyclists were wearing helmets or not, to classify them as motor biker or non‐motor biker, and to identify the vehicle number plate. The researchers stated that enhancing the training dataset and improving image quality could further enhance the accuracy level. To begin with, the proposed methodology involves capturing an image and saving it to a database for subsequent pre‐processing. The acquired image is transformed into a binary format, followed by localization of the number plate and determination of its width and height. All gaps in the image are filled with numbers to ensure that the license plate appears large enough as compared to the rest portion of the image.
The research involved six stages, starting with obtaining an image from a camera and resizing it to a smaller dimension, followed by identifying the license plate location, segmentation, and saving the image in a specified format. The CNN algorithm was used to detect whether motorcyclists were wearing helmets or not, to classify them as motor biker or non‐motor biker, and to identify the vehicle number plate.
The accuracy was 85%, 93%, and 51%, respectively, in each of the three areas. The researchers stated that enhancing the training dataset and improving image quality could further enhance the accuracy level. To begin with, the proposed methodology involves capturing an image and saving it to a database for subsequent pre‐processing. The acquired image is transformed into a binary format, followed by localization of the number plate and determination of its width and height. All gaps in the image are filled with numbers to ensure that the license plate appears large enough as compared to the rest portion of the picture. Lastly, the results obtained were saved in the document file with the desired extension. The flowchart illustrates the working of the system (Figure 4.10, Table 4.1).
Security Relevance Score: 2
Word Count: 1420
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:31

---

The main motive behind adopting it was to simplify the data and to transform it in the way that it can be easily used by the algorithm in use. The proposition employed a model that categorizes vehicles into different types such as 4‐wheeler, 2‐wheeler, and 3‐wheeler. This was accomplished by utilizing a neural network model on the input obtained after the pre‐processing stage.
In [11], the author reviewed past research and devised a system that uses a genetic algorithm to obtain a high degree of accuracy. The algorithm’s main goal is to optimize the input in order to provide a desirable output. Background subtraction was applied to create the image foreground and to transform the input data into a frame. This procedure is viewed as pre‐processing stage, and a genetic set of rules were utilized in order to ascertain whether a violation actually happened. According to the results, deploying a genetic algorithm enhanced the inputted initiatives and generated the best accurate algorithm. The traffic rule contravention detection system employed the Haar tool for identifying and capturing those vehicles that were breaking the rules.
The tool comprised numerous files and folders in XML format. To begin with, positive and negative images were considered, where the positive images contained the required object while negative ones did not. In the next stage, a classifier was trained to identify vector files that had a combination of both types of images. In the final step, a folder was created and loaded with files ranging from 0 to N−1. This approach ensured that the classifier used was fully trained and ready to use. The process commenced with the visualization of an image from the footage, followed by the use of a genetic algorithm to determine if a particular vehicle is breaking the law. Prior to feeding the image into the model, the frame in which it was captured is isolated from the main frame, and the image is converted to black and white. These steps enable the genetic algorithm to accurately detect traffic rule violations.
In [12], a study introduced a traffic rule violation detection system based on machine learning. Its purpose was to identify a vehicle’s license plate in inclement weather such as smog or rain, as well as to function with low‐quality images captured in dim lighting conditions that include low contrast and blurriness. The research involved six stages, starting by obtaining an image from a camera and resizing it to a smaller dimension, followed by the identification of the license plate location, segmentation, and saving the image in a specified format.
The CNN algorithm was used to detect whether motorcyclists were wearing helmets or not, to classify them as motor biker or non‐motor biker, and to identify the vehicle number plate. The researchers stated that enhancing the training dataset and improving image quality could further enhance the accuracy level. To begin with, the proposed methodology involves capturing an image and saving it to a database for subsequent pre‐processing. The acquired image is transformed into a binary format, followed by localization of the number plate and determination of its width and height. All gaps in the image are filled with numbers to ensure that the license plate appears large enough as compared to the rest portion of the image.
The research involved six stages, starting with obtaining an image from a camera and resizing it to a smaller dimension, followed by identifying the license plate location, segmentation, and saving the image in a specified format. The CNN algorithm was used to detect whether motorcyclists were wearing helmets or not, to classify them as motor biker or non‐motor biker, and to identify the vehicle number plate.
The accuracy was 85%, 93%, and 51%, respectively, in each of the three areas. The researchers stated that enhancing the training dataset and improving image quality could further enhance the accuracy level. To begin with, the proposed methodology involves capturing an image and saving it to a database for subsequent pre‐processing. The acquired image is transformed into a binary format, followed by localization of the number plate and determination of its width and height. All gaps in the image are filled with numbers to ensure that the license plate appears large enough as compared to the rest portion of the picture. Lastly, the results obtained were saved in the document file with the desired extension. The flowchart illustrates the working of the system (Figure 4.10, Table 4.1).


Figure 4.10 Block diagram explaining system architecture.




Table 4.1 Summary of literature review.




Year
 Author
 Objective
 Methodology
 Future scope  


2014
Nourdine Aliane and Javier Fernandez et al. [5]
To provide feedback to the driver about the offense being committed
Computer vision to detect traffic signs and EDR used to save information related to the particular violation
To further improve the proposed system based on driver’s feedback 

2017
Dr. Agrawal and Kasliwal Komal et al. [6]
To detect traffic law violation using RFID reader, tag and to capture the image using camera
The RFID reader will collect the tag number, while the surveillance system will capture the image. This data will be transmitted to a server, where it will be saved in a database
— 

2020
Chitra and Vanishree et al. [7]
Management of the traffic along with detection of rule violation
Infrared sensors to figure out the density of traffic and battery circuits to send notification to authority at time of infringement
Apply numerous image processing techniques on the image captured to fetch all the necessary details 

2020
Fraklin and Mohana et al. [8]
To determine traffic rule violation using artificial intelligence
YOLOv3 is implemented to detect the traffic law breakage such as signal jumping and overspeeding
Develop a system that can cover huge areas and can monitor large traffic through single input 

2020
Faed Ahmed Arnob and Md. Azmol Fuad et al. [9]
To develop a system that can discover lane‐based infraction
KNN algo. is adopted for extracting nearby character, gaussian blur to remove noise and to make the image smooth
— 

2021
Srinivas Reddy and Nishwa et al. [10]
Using different ML techniques to build traffic rule violation detection system
Tensor Flow technique is used to build the proposed system and various libraries have been implemented to perform particular actions
To figure out which vehicle has a greater number of challans, the concept of penalty coins or points can be implemented 

2021
Akhilalakshmi T Bhat and Anupama et al. [11]
To detect traffic regulation breach using genetic algo
Used Haar tool to detect the blockage of pedestrian lanes at the time of huge traffic on the road
— 

2022
Dr. Yeresime Suresh and Ankitha et al. [12]
Determine traffic rule breach using OpenCV, OCR and Tensor Flow
Implemented ML techniques to figure out traffic regulation infraction under poor weather conditions
To improve the prevailing system by working on other violations such as no parking zone and signal jumping   



Table 4.2 Summary of results.




 Techniques used
 Accuracy obtained  


YOLO v3


Vehicle recognition – 98%
Vehicular speed – 89%
 

KNN


Lane‐based rule violation – 78.78%
 

CNN


Wearing helmet or not – 85%
Classification as motorbike/non‐motor biker – 93%
Identify number plate – 51%
   



4.4 Comparison of Results
The previous research has yielded varying levels of accuracy, employing different techniques. Table 4.2 provides a summary of the methods used and their corresponding precision percentages.


4.5 Conclusion and Future Scope
Enforcing laws is crucial for creating a law‐abiding community, and it is essential for the proper functioning of the world. The traffic management system, along with the violation detection system, can assist traffic authorities in identifying violations and in taking strict action against violators. Past studies have shown that by developing such traffic violation architecture around 65% road accidents have been reduced in India. By penalizing a single offender, thousands of people can be alerted, and the number of casualties caused by traffic rule violations can be reduced, thereby saving millions of lives.
The scale of aforementioned figure can be further reduced if systems capable of simultaneously handling multiple violations with high speed are implemented, encompassing various traffic laws such as multiple riders on 2‐wheelers and failure to wear seat belts while driving. Therefore, the implementation of a traffic contravention detection system is of utmost importance as it will bring significant societal changes by preventing injuries and effectively managing heavy traffic on roads and highways.


References

1 Kumar, A. et al. (2019). S‐TVDS: smart traffic violation detection system for Indian traffic scenario. International Journal of Innovative Technology and Exploring Engineering (IJITEE) 8 (4S3): 6–
