# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Shilpa Mahajan_ Mehak Khurana_ Vania Vieira Estrela - Applying Artificial Intelligence in Cybersecurity Analytics and Cyber Threat Detection (2024, WILEY) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - illustrates the flow of the same and Figure 5.2 illustrates the scope of work for Cybersecurity Rating Platform.
Once any vulnerabilities are flagged in these platforms, the Security Score gets affected and decreased, and after that some efforts are given to get those identified issues remediated. Generally, IT or Server Operations Team, Application development, need to do most of these things; however, all these efforts are being done Manually, just like Security team monitors these platforms, they report the issue to concerned Digital team, and after that IT/Server Operations team or Application Development team gets involved to close the issues on time; however, the entire process may be time‐consuming and there may be lack of skill sets when it comes to close these issues. If these issues are not mitigated or closed on time, organization may negatively impact the organization in terms of business or revenue. As all the efforts to close these vulnerabilities depend on multiple groups within an organization and entire process for closing identified vulnerabilities is being done manually. Authors in this literature have proposed an automated framework to mitigate the Security Vulnerabilities in real time. Authors have leveraged AI and DevOps technologies in this literature for the same.
Security Relevance Score: 19
Word Count: 1068
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:31

---

illustrates the flow of the same and Figure 5.2 illustrates the scope of work for Cybersecurity Rating Platform.
Once any vulnerabilities are flagged in these platforms, the Security Score gets affected and decreased, and after that some efforts are given to get those identified issues remediated. Generally, IT or Server Operations Team, Application development, need to do most of these things; however, all these efforts are being done Manually, just like Security team monitors these platforms, they report the issue to concerned Digital team, and after that IT/Server Operations team or Application Development team gets involved to close the issues on time; however, the entire process may be time‐consuming and there may be lack of skill sets when it comes to close these issues. If these issues are not mitigated or closed on time, organization may negatively impact the organization in terms of business or revenue. As all the efforts to close these vulnerabilities depend on multiple groups within an organization and entire process for closing identified vulnerabilities is being done manually. Authors in this literature have proposed an automated framework to mitigate the Security Vulnerabilities in real time. Authors have leveraged AI and DevOps technologies in this literature for the same.


Figure 5.1 Enrolment to Cybersecurity rating platform.




Figure 5.2 Scope and parameters of Cybersecurity rating platform taken into consideration.


Before going into the in‐depth details of the proposed framework, authors have done a literature survey explained in the next section, where the work done by other authors are mentioned and how this literature is unique.
Below are few key words that will be used quiet often in this literature.

Vulnerability − A vulnerability is a weakness which allows a hacker to compromise the security of a computer or network system.
Threat − A threat is a possible danger that can exploit an existing bug or vulnerability to compromise the security of a computer or network system.
Attack − In terms of hacking attack is defined as an attempt that is done on the computer system or network to gain access to the system with an intent to gain critical or sensitive information.
Exploit − Exploit is a piece of software, a chunk of data, or a sequence of commands that takes advantage of a bug or vulnerability to compromise the security of a computer or network system.
Zero‐Day Exploit − A zero‐day exploit is an unknown security vulnerability or software flaw that attackers specifically target with malicious code. This flaw or hole, called a zero‐day vulnerability, can go unnoticed for years.
Application Security – This is one of the parameters for assessing the Cybersecurity rating for an organization, here mostly the surface level of application is assessed which is hosted over the internet like HTTP Headers.
Network Security – Another parameters for assessing the Cybersecurity Rating Platform where which mostly flagged the issue related to Network Layer, like if insecure TLS protocol is used or configured for communication, Vulnerable ciphers are configured in TLS protocol for communication, web/database service is accessible over the internet, etc.
End Point Security – End point security ensures all the assets in an organization’s scope are running latest sets of softwares and Operating systems.
Credentials Leak – This identifies all the leaked credentials particularly those that are maintained at client‐side code [JavaScript code], Source Code like GitHub, Bit‐bucket public repositories, and in other source code management tools. Developers often mistakenly upload few sensitive information like Access keys, Database Passwords, Admin Credentials, SSH and SSL keys, and details of outdated dependencies over public repositories GitHub, Bit‐bucket/Client Side JavaScript codes, etc. which can impact the organization badly. In this literature, authors have proposed a way to crawl the internet for such sensitive information over the internet and report to the business group once such issues are detected. Ideally, most of the Cybersecurity Ratings that are available only perform the activity over website, not at source code level (source code repository scan w.r.t credentials leak doesn’t happen). In this literature, authors have proposed a crawler to do the same.



5.2 Literature Review
Daniel Kant and Johannsen Andreas [3], talks about AI Based use cases for enhancing Cybersecurity posture for small‐ and mid‐size organizations, and have done literature survey to identify usable AI‐based solution for enhancing cybersecurity defense for small‐ and mid‐sized organization. Poltavtseva et al. [4] proposed an effective approach to formalizing information for Penetration Testing activities from subject domains, quantitative relevance estimates of object characteristics, and estimates of object similarity. AlSadhan, Tina et al. [5] talk about importance and existence of automation in Cybersecurity Operations, and the difficulties and challenges for achieving full‐fledged ISCM, Information Security Monitoring capabilities like real‐time threat detection and incidence response and risk‐based decision‐making capabilities. This research talks about redefining ISCM framework to enhance risk‐based decision‐making embedding security automation. Mohammad, Sikender Mohsienuddin et al. [6] talk about the need of automation in Cybersecurity domain, as this particular fields lack automation compared to other domains, in terms of testing for vulnerabilities, reporting vulnerabilities in real time, and mitigating the same. The authors talk in detail about the need of automation in security and incident management and how security automation can safeguard organization’s technological systems. Aguirre, Idoia et al. [7] talk about presenting a collaborative strategy between Security Information and Event Manager from different trusted domains that share notification and the consequently adopted countermeasures. These have been based on traffic patterns related to offered online services. The concept of sharing alarms and adopted measures in domains with similar profiles, intends to enhance a global view of the security, and by this way, facilitates decision‐making for security domain administrators. It is clear from this background study that there is a lot of scope for automation in Cybersecurity domain, hence authors have specifically chosen to use AI and DevOps for automation to increase cybersecurity ratings for an organization to grow business.


5.3 Proposed Methodology
Before proceeding to the system architecture and design, authors have first provided the GIST of various parameters and its attributes which are taken into consideration while processing the remediation of vulnerabilities which are taken into consideration by Cybersecurity Rating platforms. Tables 5.1–5.3 show descriptions of each parameter taken into consideration in this literature.
Authors in this literature have provided a unique ID for each of the vulnerabilities to process the mitigation of the issues. System Architecture of the proposed solution in this literature has been shown in Figure 5.
