# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Shilpa Mahajan_ Mehak Khurana_ Vania Vieira Estrela - Applying Artificial Intelligence in Cybersecurity Analytics and Cyber Threat Detection (2024, WILEY) - libgen.li
Chapter: 4 - Credentials Leak: Figure 5.27 shows the crawling modules created for GitHub Dorking.
This module will generate the results in CSV or Excel format and from there some manual checks need to be done for reassuring whether or not the generated results have identified some sensitive information or not. Later this information will be sent out to Development team and business owner for the closure. This module will eventually ensure that before application is going live there is no sensitive information or hard‐coded credentials present in the live website/client side JavaScript code.
Analytics: Figures 5.28–5.30 show graphical or analytical representation of Tables 5.4–5.6.
Security Relevance Score: 8
Word Count: 392
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:31

---

Credentials Leak: Figure 5.27 shows the crawling modules created for GitHub Dorking.
This module will generate the results in CSV or Excel format and from there some manual checks need to be done for reassuring whether or not the generated results have identified some sensitive information or not. Later this information will be sent out to Development team and business owner for the closure. This module will eventually ensure that before application is going live there is no sensitive information or hard‐coded credentials present in the live website/client side JavaScript code.
Analytics: Figures 5.28–5.30 show graphical or analytical representation of Tables 5.4–5.6.




5.5 Conclusion and Future Scope of Work
In this literature, authors have discussed importance of Vulnerability Management in regard to Cybersecurity Rating Platforms, which assess the overall security posture at surface level of an organization and give grade or score. These scores/grades help the organization to attract business. In this literature, authors have taken into consideration three parameters which are commonly used by Cybersecurity rating (like Application, Network, and End Point Security) platforms for assessing the overall security score for an organization. Authors also have discussed the issues related to the mitigation strategy for the security vulnerabilities reported by Cybersecurity Rating platforms, like lack of awareness, skill set, and automation strategy across organizations, etc. Authors in this literature have proposed a DevOps powered by AI to mitigate and remediate the vulnerabilities reported by Cybersecurity Rating Platforms in real time. Experimentation was also done against each category and subcategory of vulnerabilities and all the vulnerabilities that were taken into consideration were executed successfully. However, AI and NLP which will be the driving force for this work is under progress and is putted under future scope of work for this literature. Here all the experimentation was done based on the preexisting dictionary or configuration sets, which ideally as per the proposal should be fetched from the various authentic sources over the internet. Also, holding a good security score from Cybersecurity rating platforms doesn’t necessarily mean the organization has great strength in terms of security as most of the Cybersecurity rating platforms assess the organization security at a very surface level (minimal level). Future scope of this literature will also include addressing or mitigating Zero Day attacks or exploits on real‐time basis.


Figure 5.29 Analytical Representation of Network Security Section or Table 5.
