# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Tarnveer Singh - Digital Resilience, Cybersecurity and Supply Chains (2025, Taylor & Francis Group) - libgen.li (1)
Chapter: 1 - Digital Resilience
Security Relevance Score: 5
Word Count: 491
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:40

---

Digital Resilience, Cybersecurity and Supply Chains
In the digital era, the pace of technological advancement is unprecedented, and the interconnectivity of systems and processes has reached levels never seen before. While this interconnectivity has brought about numerous benefits, it has also introduced new risks and vulnerabilities that can potentially disrupt operations, compromise data integrity, and threaten business continuity. In today’s rapidly evolving digital landscape, organisations must prioritise resilience to thrive. Digital resilience encompasses the ability to adapt, recover, and maintain operations in the face of cyber threats, operational disruptions, and supply chain challenges. As we navigate the complexities of the digital age, cultivating resilience is paramount to safeguarding our digital assets, ensuring business continuity, and fostering long-term success. Digital Resilience, Cybersecurity and Supply Chains considers the intricacies of digital resilience and its various facets, including cyber resilience, operational resilience, and supply chain resilience. Executives and business students need to understand the key challenges organisations face in building resilience and provide actionable strategies, tools, and technologies to enhance our digital resilience capabilities. This book examines real-world case studies of organisations that have successfully navigated the complexities of the digital age, providing inspiration for readers’ own resilience journeys.
Tarnveer Singh is an experienced CISO and Security Director at Cyber Wisdom Ltd.









BUSINESS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION
Digital technologies are transforming societies across the globe, the effects of which are yet to be fully understood. In the business world, technological disruption brings an array of challenges and opportunities for organizations, management and the workplace.
This series of textbooks provides a student-centred library to analyse, explore and critique the evolutionary effects of technology on the business world. Each book in the series takes the perspective of a key business discipline and examines the transformational potential of digital technology, aided by real world cases and examples.
With contributions from expert scholars across the globe, the books in this series enable critical thinking students to excel in their studies of the new digital business environment.
Demand-Driven Business Strategy
Digital Transformation and Business Model Innovation
Cor Molenaar
Navigating Digital Transformation in Management
Richard Busulwa
Smart Business and Digital Transformation
An Industry 4.0 Perspective
Sándor Gyula Nagy and Tamás Stukovszky
Data Analytics and Digital Transformation
Erik Beulen and Marla A. Dans
Consumer Behaviour and Digital Transformation
Ayantunji Gbadamosi
Digital Infrastructures for Business Innovation
Magda David Hercheui and Tony Cornford
Digital Resilience, Cybersecurity and Supply Chains
Tarnveer Singh
For more information about this series, please visit www.routledge.com/Routledge-New-Directions-in-Public-Relations–Communication-Research/book-series/BAD










Digital Resilience, Cybersecurity and Supply Chains

Tarnveer Singh












Designed cover image: Getty Images
First published 2025
by Routledge
4 Park Square, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4RN
and by Routledge
605 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10158
Routledge is an imprint of the Taylor & Francis Group, an informa business
© 2025 Tarnveer Singh
The right of Tarnveer Singh to be identified as author of this work has been asserted in accordance with sections 77 and 78 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act
