# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Tarnveer Singh - Digital Resilience, Cybersecurity and Supply Chains (2025, Taylor & Francis Group) - libgen.li (1)
Chapter: 22301 - It sets out a series of prerequisite tasks and resources, and offers guidance on conducting the analysis.
Prerequisite tasks and resources encompass defining the context and scope for business continuity and thereon establishing business continuity programme roles, including roles and responsibilities; roles and competencies; programme commitment, and programme resources.
The analysis process involves project planning and management. Prioritising products and services is the next important step. Prioritising processes is crucial for effective management. The next step is prioritising activities. Analysis and consolidation of these is crucial. Securing top management endorsement of results is important for maintaining support. Thereafter the business continuity strategy can be selected and agreed with senior stakeholders.
The standard also advises that the business impact analysis process be monitored and reviewed periodically (typically annually) or following an organisational change.
Security Relevance Score: 2
Word Count: 252
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:40

---

It sets out a series of prerequisite tasks and resources, and offers guidance on conducting the analysis.
Prerequisite tasks and resources encompass defining the context and scope for business continuity and thereon establishing business continuity programme roles, including roles and responsibilities; roles and competencies; programme commitment, and programme resources.
The analysis process involves project planning and management. Prioritising products and services is the next important step. Prioritising processes is crucial for effective management. The next step is prioritising activities. Analysis and consolidation of these is crucial. Securing top management endorsement of results is important for maintaining support. Thereafter the business continuity strategy can be selected and agreed with senior stakeholders.
The standard also advises that the business impact analysis process be monitored and reviewed periodically (typically annually) or following an organisational change.

Other ISO/IEC 22300 Family Standards
The ISO 22300 family includes several standards which can be considered in terms of relevance to the project. These standards provide guidance in areas such as export interoperability for video surveillance, examination of existing available technologies, planning mass evacuations, and supply chain continuity. Other standards that could be considered include planning for the involvement of spontaneous volunteers, incident response, public warning, colour-coded alerts, and capability assessment. There are some other standards which may be pertinent such as monitoring facilities with identified hazards, human aspects of business continuity, message structure for information exchange, establishing partnering arrangements, and conducting exercises.

ISO 27001 and ISO 27002
The core components of the family are standards ISO/IEC 27001 and ISO/IEC
