# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Tarnveer Singh - Digital Resilience, Cybersecurity and Supply Chains (2025, Taylor & Francis Group) - libgen.li (1)
Chapter: 2024 - Beyond Conventional Threat Defense: Implementing Advanced Threat Modeling Techniques, Risk Modeling Frameworks and Contingency Planning in the Healthcare Sector for Enhanced Data Security. Journal of Engineering Research and Reports, 26(5), pp.304–323.
Finkenstadt, D.J., Sotiriadis, J., Guinto, P., and Eapen, T., 2024. Contingency Scenario Planning Using Generative AI. California Management Review Insights.(January 22, 2024). https://cmr.berkeley.edu/2024/01/contingency-scenario-planning-using-generative-ai.
Noor, B., 2024. Incident Response and Disaster Recovery: Business Continuity Planning for Cloud-based Financial Services. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/381408881_Incident_Response_and_Disaster_Recovery_Business_continuity_planning_for_cloud-based_financial_services.
Sehra, S.K., and Singh, A., 2024. Analysis of Data Backup and Recovery Strategies in the Cloud. In Applied Data Science and Smart Systems (pp.409–415). CRC Press.
Nanda, A.K., Sharma, A., Augustine, P.J., Cyril, B.R., Kiran, V., and Sampath, B., 2024. Securing Cloud Infrastructure in IaaS and PaaS Environments. In Improving Security, Privacy, and Trust in Cloud Computing (pp.1–33). IGI Global.
Website: https://www.commvault.com/resources/case-studies/a-renowned-auto-manufacturer-ensures-cyber-resilience.
Website: https://www.commvault.com/resources/case-studies/case-study-allina-health.
Website: https://www.commvault.com/resources/case-studies/case-study-arvest-bank.
Security Relevance Score: 16
Word Count: 2859
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:40

---

Beyond Conventional Threat Defense: Implementing Advanced Threat Modeling Techniques, Risk Modeling Frameworks and Contingency Planning in the Healthcare Sector for Enhanced Data Security. Journal of Engineering Research and Reports, 26(5), pp.304–323.
Finkenstadt, D.J., Sotiriadis, J., Guinto, P., and Eapen, T., 2024. Contingency Scenario Planning Using Generative AI. California Management Review Insights.(January 22, 2024). https://cmr.berkeley.edu/2024/01/contingency-scenario-planning-using-generative-ai.
Noor, B., 2024. Incident Response and Disaster Recovery: Business Continuity Planning for Cloud-based Financial Services. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/381408881_Incident_Response_and_Disaster_Recovery_Business_continuity_planning_for_cloud-based_financial_services.
Sehra, S.K., and Singh, A., 2024. Analysis of Data Backup and Recovery Strategies in the Cloud. In Applied Data Science and Smart Systems (pp.409–415). CRC Press.
Nanda, A.K., Sharma, A., Augustine, P.J., Cyril, B.R., Kiran, V., and Sampath, B., 2024. Securing Cloud Infrastructure in IaaS and PaaS Environments. In Improving Security, Privacy, and Trust in Cloud Computing (pp.1–33). IGI Global.
Website: https://www.commvault.com/resources/case-studies/a-renowned-auto-manufacturer-ensures-cyber-resilience.
Website: https://www.commvault.com/resources/case-studies/case-study-allina-health.
Website: https://www.commvault.com/resources/case-studies/case-study-arvest-bank.












8

Supply Chain Management and the Cyber Risk Landscape
DOI: 10.4324/9781003604969-8


Cyber Risk Landscape and NIST CSF
The process of managing risks within the supply chain network is complex and requires ongoing monitoring and control, hence cybersecurity is a paramount concern.1
It is increasingly the case that direct and indirect cyber risks are so great that constant vigilance is required. Guidance is needed for companies so they can clearly establish a supplier risk management programme involving new and existing suppliers, and how to sustain those activities operationally.2
There are limitations of cybersecurity skills in small to medium-sized organisations, including enterprise leadership and non-IT professionals who are responsible for supplier relationships.3
To meet this need, guidance is provided in this chapter for enterprise leadership and IT leadership. The next chapter provides guidance for non-IT professionals.
Cybersecurity within the supply chain can be met by following the National Institute of Standards and Technology’s Cyber Security Framework (“CSF”) supply chain security practices as part of version 2.0 of the framework.4 Other frameworks offer a similar approach. Also see the Centre for Internet Security 18 Critical Controls.5 A framework for continuous control verification is MITRE ATT&CK™.6
Advice is there to support attributes of supplier risk management programmes; e.g., policies and procedures, roles and responsibilities, and establishing overall governance. Establish and sustain the supplier risk management programme including inventory of suppliers, risk assessment, and risk treatment. Cybersecurity requirements, language for contracts, and supporting the contract management process must be considered. Guidelines for assurance that suppliers are adhering to their contract commitments is important. Planning and testing response to and recovery from supplier cybersecurity incidents is crucial.
The NIST CSF and other security control frameworks can offer a proactive approach for leveraging acquirer and supplier relationships to reduce cybersecurity risks. NIST documentation has been relied upon for this guidance and is extensively referenced throughout.7
Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management (C-SCRM)
Technologies rely on a complex, globally distributed, extensive, and interconnected supply chain ecosystem. Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management (C-SCRM) is a systematic process for managing exposure to cybersecurity risk throughout supply chains and developing appropriate response strategies, policies, processes, and procedures. C-SCRM practitioners identify, assess, and mitigate cybersecurity risks throughout the supply chain at all levels of their organisations associated with information and communications technology (ICT) products and services. Potential risks include malicious functionality, counterfeit devices, or vulnerabilities derived from poor manufacturing and development practices within the supply chain.
The supply chain ecosystem is composed of public and private sector entities – including acquirers, suppliers, developers, system integrators, external system service providers, and other technology-related service providers – that interact to research, develop, design, manufacture, acquire, deliver, integrate, operate, maintain, dispose of, and otherwise utilise or manage technology products and services.
Cybersecurity risks and threats evolve at an unprecedented rate, resulting in susceptibility to cyber exploitation. This exploitation often targets internet-connected devices, long-lived legacy technology, cloud applications, third-party services, and the free flow of suppliers.8
Emerging technologies can help, such as use of predictive analytics, as these targets can be exploited through numerous paths (vectors), ranging from a supplier servicing an asset, poor manufacturer security design and ongoing patching, installed networks, loaner/rental devices, manufacturer default passwords, supplier applications interfaced into systems, etc.9
Comprehensive threat analysis is necessary as the combination of exploits and exploitable targets is growing daily, allowing anyone from amateur hackers to malicious nation-state actors an opportunity to breach customer data, disrupt operations, and/or cause customer harm.10
Properly managing cyber risk within the supply chain requires a proactive strategy to protect customer information and sensitive data against an ever-increasing risk from bad actors outside, and sometimes within, the system.
Supply chain cybersecurity risk management also serves as a strategy to enable collaboration as well as supporting and increasing preparedness and business continuity planning and countermeasures.11
All types of technology rely on a complex, globally distributed, extensive, and interconnected supply chain ecosystem. C-SCRM is a systematic process for managing exposure to cybersecurity risk throughout supply chains and developing appropriate response strategies, policies, processes, and procedures. Effective C-SCRM requires stakeholders across the enterprise to actively collaborate, communicate, and take actions to secure favourable C-SCRM outcomes.

A Systematic Process
This is a brief overview of C-SCRM and how it relates to the Cybersecurity Framework (CSF). Organisations implementing C-SCRM capabilities should not rely solely on this and should consult the additional documents referenced within.
Improve C-SCRM processes: The CSF can help an organisation become a smart acquirer and supplier of technology products and services. This approach focuses on ways the CSF can help. Use the CSF’s GV.SC Category to establish and operate a C-SCRM capability. Define and communicate supplier requirements using the CSF.
The supply chain ecosystem is composed of public and private sector entities including acquirers, suppliers, developers, system integrators, external system service providers, and other technology-related service providers that interact to research, develop, design, manufacture, acquire, deliver, integrate, operate, maintain, dispose of, and otherwise utilise or manage technology products and services.
Consider a laptop with hardware subcomponents (like the graphics processor, random-access memory, or network interface card) sourced from different countries and third-party manufacturers, and subject to distinct supply chain interactions. That laptop also contains software (and firmware) developed by different companies and people. How do we manage risk for complex ICT devices with multiple components?
The supply chain ecosystem includes other third parties such as business partners and various data and digital service providers. Practices can be applied to manage cybersecurity risks from such relationships as well.

Establishing C-SCRM Capability
The CSF has a Category within its Govern Function dedicated to C-SCRM: the Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management (GV.SC) Category.12 GV.SC contains the key outcomes that every organisation should achieve through its C-SCRM capability. Additionally, many of the subcategories within the remainder of the CSF can be used to identify and communicate C-SCRM-related requirements internally for organisations and for their vendors.
Perform these activities to establish your organisation’s C-SCRM capability:
Task 1: Create a C-SCRM strategy, objectives, policies, and processes. [GV.SC-01]
Task 2: Identify your organisation’s technology suppliers and determine how critical each one is to your organisation. [GV.SC-04]
Task 3: Establish C-SCRM roles and requirements and communicate them within and outside your organisation. This includes identifying C-SCRM roles and responsibilities [GV.SC02] and C-SCRM requirements. [GV.SC-05]
Consolidate activities between your C-SCRM capability and other internal capabilities:

Integrate C-SCRM into cybersecurity and enterprise risk management, risk assessment, and improvement processes, and monitor the performance of C-SCRM practices throughout the technology lifecycle. [GV.SC-03, GV.SC-09] See the Enterprise Risk Management Quick-Start Guide for more information on C-SCRM integration.13
Include your relevant suppliers in cybersecurity incident planning, response, and recovery activities. [GV.SC-08] See NIST’s Computer Security Incident Handling Guide for more information on key practices for cybersecurity incidents.14

Top tips for Task 1: Create a C-SCRM Strategy, Objectives, Policies, and Processes

Establish a C-SCRM strategy that lays out the objectives of the capability.
Develop a C-SCRM plan (with milestones) and C-SCRM policies and procedures that guide implementation and improvement of the plan and the capability; socialise those policies and procedures with organisational stakeholders.
Develop and implement C-SCRM processes based on the strategy, objectives, policies, and procedures that are agreed upon and performed by the organisational stakeholders.
Establish a cross-organisational mechanism that ensures alignment between functions that contribute to C-SCRM management, such as cybersecurity, IT, legal, HR, engineering, etc.


Top tips for Task 2: Identify your Organisation’s Technology Suppliers and Determine how Critical each one is to your Organisation

Develop criteria for supplier criticality based on, for example, the importance of the supplier’s products or services to the organisation’s business, sensitivity of data processed or stored by the supplier, and degree of access to the organisation’s systems.
Prioritise suppliers into criticality levels based on the criteria. See NIST IR 8179, Criticality Analysis Process Model: Prioritising Systems and Components for more information on a structured method for prioritisation.15
Keep a record of all suppliers, prioritised based on the criticality criteria.


Top tips for Task 3: Establish C-SCRM Roles and Requirements and Communicate them Within and Outside your Organisation
C-SCRM Roles and Responsibilities

Identify one or more specific roles or positions that will be responsible and accountable for planning, resourcing, and executing C-SCRM activities.
Document C-SCRM roles and responsibilities in policy.
Create responsibility matrices (e.g., RACI charts) to document who will be responsible, accountable, consulted, and informed for C-SCRM activities and how those teams and individuals will be consulted and informed.
Include C-SCRM responsibilities and performance requirements in personnel descriptions to ensure clarity and improve accountability.
Document performance goals for personnel with C-SCRM responsibilities, and periodically measure them to demonstrate and improve performance.
Develop roles and responsibilities for suppliers, customers, and business partners to address shared responsibilities for applicable cybersecurity risks and integrate them into organisational policies and applicable third-party agreements.
Internally communicate C-SCRM roles and responsibilities for suppliers.
Establish rules and protocols for information sharing and reporting processes between the organisation and its suppliers.


C-SCRM Requirements

Establish security requirements for suppliers, products, and services commensurate with their criticality and potential impact if compromised.
Include all cybersecurity and supply chain requirements that suppliers must follow and how compliance with the requirements may be verified in default contractual language.
Define the rules and protocols for information sharing between the organisation and its suppliers and sub-tier suppliers in contracts.
Include security requirements in contracts based on their criticality and potential impact if compromised.
Define security requirements in SLAs for monitoring suppliers for acceptable security performance throughout the supplier relationship lifecycle.
Specify in contracts the rights and responsibilities of the organisation, its suppliers, and their supply chains with respect to potential cybersecurity risks. Contractually require suppliers to do the following:
Disclose cybersecurity features, functions, and vulnerabilities of their products and services for the life of the product or the term of service.
Provide and maintain a current component inventory (e.g., software or hardware bill of materials) for critical products.
Vet their employees and guard against insider threats.
Provide evidence of performing acceptable security practices through, for example, self-attestation, conformance to known standards, certifications, or inspections.

Developing supplier requirements: An organisation should specify requirements for technology suppliers. Robustness of these requirements should correspond to supplier criticality.
Organisations can use two different methods for specifying supplier requirements:
1 Use CSF Categories and Subcategories
Not all Categories and Subcategories will apply to all suppliers. You can pick and choose requirements that fit your mission or business supplier criticality level. Select requirements for suppliers based on their criticality and your mission or business. To do that, review the list of CSF Categories and Subcategories, and determine which ones will be applicable to suppliers within each of the criticality levels, based on the risk appetite for each supplier criticality level.
When considering individual supplier agreements, determine if additional supplier requirements are needed based on existing criticality criteria, such as your mission or business, data type being processed, or digital product or service being provided.

2 Create CSF Target Profiles for Each Supplier Criticality Level
Express supplier requirements for each supplier criticality level.

Examples of CSF Categories and Subcategories that are Likely to Include Requirements for Suppliers
Govern

Organisational Context: Legal, regulatory, and contractual requirements regarding cybersecurity including privacy and civil liberties obligations are understood and managed. [GV.OC-03]
Roles, Responsibilities, and Authorities: Roles, responsibilities, and authorities related to cybersecurity risk management are established, communicated, understood, and enforced. [GV.RR02]
Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management: Cyber supply chain risk management processes are identified, established, managed, monitored, and improved by organisational stakeholders. [GV.SC]


Protect

Identity Management, Authentication, and Access Control: Identities and credentials for authorised users, services, and hardware are managed by the organisation. [PR.AA-01]
Awareness and Training: Individuals in specialised roles are provided with awareness and training so that they possess the knowledge and skills to perform relevant tasks with cybersecurity risks in mind. [PR.AT-02]


Identify

Risk Assessment: The authenticity and integrity of hardware and software are assessed prior to acquisition and use. [ID.RA-09] Critical suppliers are assessed prior to acquisition. [ID.RA-10]
Improvement: Improvements are identified from security tests and exercises, including those done in coordination with suppliers and relevant third parties. [ID.IM-02]


Detect

Continuous Monitoring: Personnel activity and technology usage are monitored to find potentially adverse events. [DE.CM-03]


Respond

Incident Management: Incidents are escalated or elevated as needed. [RS.MA-04]
Incident Response Reporting and Communication: Internal and external stakeholders are notified of incidents. [RS.CO-02]


Recover

Incident Recovery Plan Execution: The integrity of backups and other restoration assets is verified before using them for restoration. [RC.RP-03]
Incident Recovery Communication: Recovery activities and progress in restoring operational capabilities are communicated to designated internal and external stakeholders. [RC.CO-03]


Create Target Profiles to Communicate Supplier Requirements by Supplier Criticality Level
Follow these steps to create Target Profiles for communicating C-SCRM requirements to your suppliers:

Scope the Target Profile. Decide which of your supplier criticality levels it will apply to, and determine any other restrictions to be placed on the Profile’s scope, such as suppliers of a particular type of product or service only. You can create as many Target Profiles as you need to specify the requirements for all of your suppliers.
Select the CSF Categories to include. Identify which CSF Categories and Subcategories correspond to your requirements, and only include those Categories and Subcategories in the Target Profile.
Determine what types of information to include in your Target Profile. Target Profiles are flexible and can contain whatever types of information you want to communicate to your suppliers. The notional Profile excerpt below captures each selected Category’s and Subcategory’s relative priority, the internal practices that the supplier must follow, and references to additional sources of information on achieving the Category and Subcategory.
Fill in the columns, and share the Target Profile. Once the contents of the Target Profile have been internally reviewed and finalised, it can be shared with your suppliers as your set of C-SCRM requirements for them.


Additional Resources
Resources for Creating Target Profiles

Quick-Start Guide for Creating and Using Organisational Profiles (including Target Profiles).16
A Guide to Creating CSF 2.0 Community Profiles (Community Profiles have much in common with creating Target Profiles for numerous suppliers to follow).17
Quick-Start Guide for Using the CSF Tiers (to help inform creation of Target Profiles).18
Enterprise Risk Management Quick-Start Guide.19
Informative Reference Mapping Quick-Start Guide (Informative References for a Target Profile).20


Table  8.1  Sample Target Profiles


Selected CSF Outcomes
Target Priority
Target Internal Practices
Selected Informative References




PR.PS, The hardware, software (e.g., firmware, operating systems, applications), and services of physical and virtual platforms are managed consistent with the organisation’s risk strategy to protect their confidentiality, integrity, and availability
High

Configure platforms to allow the installation of organisation-approved software only.
Verify the source of new software and the software’s integrity before installing it.
Configure platforms to use only approved DNS services that block access to known malicious domains.
….


NIST SP 800–161r1, control SI-3
ISO 27002:2022, control 8.7
…



…






To make this effective in practice follow the following steps:

Review all NIST CSF 2.0 Categories and Subcategories.
Develop C-SCRM strategy, objectives, policies, and processes.
Identify your organisation’s technology suppliers.
Determine how critical each technology supplier is to your organisation and prioritise your suppliers.
Establish C-SCRM roles and requirements.
Communicate C-SCRM roles and requirements within and outside your organisation, including to technology suppliers.


NIST resources are shared to support you in establishing and operating your C-SCRM capability:

Key Practices in Cyber Supply Chain Risk Management: Observations from Industry (NIST IR 8276) summarises practices foundational to an effective C-SCRM capability.21
Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management Practices for Systems and Organisations (NIST SP 800–161 Revision 1) guides organisations in identifying, assessing, and responding to supply chain risks at all levels.22 It is flexible and builds on an organisation’s existing cybersecurity practices. Also, Appendix A identifies the C-SCRM-related controls from NIST SP 80053r5 and augments those controls with additional supplemental guidance, as well as providing new controls as appropriate.23
Criticality Analysis Process Model: Prioritising Systems and Components (NIST IR 8179) provides information on prioritising suppliers by criticality levels.24
The Software and Supply Chain Assurance Forum provides a venue for government, industry, and academic participants from around the world to share their knowledge and expertise regarding C-SCRM, supply chain risks, effective practices and response strategies, tools and technologies, and any gaps related to the people, processes, or technologies involved.25
NIST’s C-SCRM Program website contains links to additional resources.26



Notes

Adenekan, O.A., Ezeigweneme, C., and Chukwurah, E.G.,
