# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Tarnveer Singh - Digital Resilience, Cybersecurity and Supply Chains (2025, Taylor & Francis Group) - libgen.li (1)
Chapter: 2 - 3) Guidance on the redlining process: The intended audience for this is small to medium-sized organisations, typically those without dedicated cybersecurity subject matter experts on staff. This chapter therefore attempts to provide a contracting template that incorporates technical concepts into a workable format, without requiring an in-depth cybersecurity knowledge.
Contract clauses should be based upon guiding principles. Clauses should be structured with a “common core” set of requirements which are applicable to any supplier relationship and “supplemental” requirements specific to the type of supplier relationship. Note: the supplemental requirements are not mutually exclusive and multiple requirements may be applicable to a single contract. Furthermore, there may be relationship types outside of this list which are not effectively covered. In that case, it is advisable to seek independent guidance from a qualified cybersecurity subject matter expert.
Clauses should be designed with enough specificity to be actionable and enforceable, while also representing a value-adding but basic cybersecurity maturity level. This maturity level is intentional to minimise the redlining during the contracting process. If the customer’s supplier is unable or unwilling to meet these requirements, it may require additional due diligence because that may be an indicator of their relative scale and level of capability to meet the organisation’s needs and consequently may be a cause for concern. Similarly, if the relationship is particularly sensitive or critical, it may be advisable to contract independent subject matter expertise to give case-specific guidance going beyond the lowest common denominator cybersecurity practices that this chapter lays out.
Keeping those principles in mind, as with any negotiation, it is common for compromises to be made in order to arrive at an agreement that is acceptable to both parties. Not all of the stipulations of the template language below will be equally important in every case. Their importance will depend on the nature of the supplier relationship and the impact a cybersecurity incident may have on each party. For example, if the nature of the relationship is such that the supplier is hosting or has access to the customer organisation’s data, some controls may be more important than if the supplier is simply providing a product without access to the data.
Another common scenario is for the supplier to insist on their own contractual language as the basis for the agreement. In this case you can either ask that this contractual template be inserted into that document or ask the supplier to map their requirements to this template and demonstrate how they meet or exceed their terms.
Security Relevance Score: 21
Word Count: 4364
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:40

---

3) Guidance on the redlining process: The intended audience for this is small to medium-sized organisations, typically those without dedicated cybersecurity subject matter experts on staff. This chapter therefore attempts to provide a contracting template that incorporates technical concepts into a workable format, without requiring an in-depth cybersecurity knowledge.
Contract clauses should be based upon guiding principles. Clauses should be structured with a “common core” set of requirements which are applicable to any supplier relationship and “supplemental” requirements specific to the type of supplier relationship. Note: the supplemental requirements are not mutually exclusive and multiple requirements may be applicable to a single contract. Furthermore, there may be relationship types outside of this list which are not effectively covered. In that case, it is advisable to seek independent guidance from a qualified cybersecurity subject matter expert.
Clauses should be designed with enough specificity to be actionable and enforceable, while also representing a value-adding but basic cybersecurity maturity level. This maturity level is intentional to minimise the redlining during the contracting process. If the customer’s supplier is unable or unwilling to meet these requirements, it may require additional due diligence because that may be an indicator of their relative scale and level of capability to meet the organisation’s needs and consequently may be a cause for concern. Similarly, if the relationship is particularly sensitive or critical, it may be advisable to contract independent subject matter expertise to give case-specific guidance going beyond the lowest common denominator cybersecurity practices that this chapter lays out.
Keeping those principles in mind, as with any negotiation, it is common for compromises to be made in order to arrive at an agreement that is acceptable to both parties. Not all of the stipulations of the template language below will be equally important in every case. Their importance will depend on the nature of the supplier relationship and the impact a cybersecurity incident may have on each party. For example, if the nature of the relationship is such that the supplier is hosting or has access to the customer organisation’s data, some controls may be more important than if the supplier is simply providing a product without access to the data.
Another common scenario is for the supplier to insist on their own contractual language as the basis for the agreement. In this case you can either ask that this contractual template be inserted into that document or ask the supplier to map their requirements to this template and demonstrate how they meet or exceed their terms.

Table  9.2  Cybersecurity Threats and Impacts by Supplier Relationship Type


Threat
Potential Impact of Attack (non-technical audience)
Examples of Supplier Relationships




Email phishing attack
Email “phishing” is the most common form of cyber attack. It typically involves the victim receiving a malicious email that persuades them to either click on a link or open an attachment. Links may take the victim to a look-alike or malicious website where they are either persuaded to enter their user I.D. and password (thereby giving those details to the attacker), or the malicious website or email attachment may download malware to the victim’s computer. Different malware has differing functionality – e.g., spying on the user, giving the attacker control of the computer or other computers on the same network, or holding the victim’s data ransom (see below). Phishing is not restricted to email – other vehicles could be unsolicited SMS messages, instant message app messages, or even malicious USB devices.
A supplier storing/processing sensitive data on your behalf.A supplier with access credentials to your computer systems, for example for tech support or to input orders.


Ransomwareattack
Ransomware is a type of malware whereby the attacker encrypts the victim’s data, making it inaccessible, and demands payment to release it. Ransomware is among the most common cybercrimes and victimises organisations of all sizes. Unavailability of mission-critical data or software can disrupt an organisation’s ability to serve customers or operate as a business. Like the effects of a fire or other disaster, many organisations never recover from a period of downtime exceeding a week.Ransomware affects not only “traditional” computer systems (desktops, tablets, etc.) but also connected “smart” devices such as thermostats, building control systems, security cameras, etc.
A supplier that is the sole supplier for a mission-critical product or service (if they are down, you are down).A supplier that is the exclusive holder of data critical to your mission.A provider of IT hosting, IT support services, cloud-based software, or software within devices that your organisation sells or depends upon.


Loss or theft of equipment or data
Theft of media storage, files, or devices holding sensitive data.
A supplier storing/processing sensitive data on behalf of the customer organisation.A supplier with access credentials to the customer’s computer systems.A supplier with physical access to devices or network of the customer organisation.



Accidental or intentional data loss
Accidental loss of data; for example, downloading data onto a laptop which is then lost or stolen, mailing data storage, which is lost in the mail, leaking of data by an insider to other organisations not authorised to access it.
A supplier storing/processing sensitive data on behalf of the customer organisation.
A supplier with access credentials to the customer’s computer systems.
A supplier with physical access to devices or network of the customer organisation.



Attacks against connected IoT devices
Tampering with the proper functionality of “smart” or connected devices or making those devices unavailable, for example by shutting them down or locking legitimate users out of them.
A supplier of IoT or smart devices.
A supplier with access credentials to systems.
A supplier with physical access to devices or network of the customer organisation.




Ultimately, if the supplier is unwilling to meet one or more of the terms of this recommended contract language, the organisation must decide whether to proceed regardless or seek alternatives. The decision to proceed with the relationship should be based on whether the potential derived value is greater than the potential risk to the organisation and, more specifically, its customers, employees, environment, and shareholders/owners in the event of a cybersecurity incident.
4) Guidance on how the buyer might obtain assurance: Contracts define the vehicles for the buyer to gain assurance that the controls promised are actually in place, be they technical controls implemented within a product, or process controls that the supplier executes as part of how they provide their service or maintain/support their product over time.
Unfortunately, suppliers may have little incentive to provide transparency, especially to smaller customers with less leverage/purchasing power. Moreover, even if such transparency were provided, small organisations have limited capacity and capability to digest and understand the information. Therefore, for small organisations it is important to focus on the most important supplier relationships based on potential impact. In addition, consider the following:
Security is expensive. A supplier may be cutting the costs of their security programme to reduce overall IT expenses.
Security is hard. All other things being equal, larger suppliers (with more demanding larger customers) are more likely to have the scale which enables them to secure their products and services, whereas smaller companies may find this more challenging.
Security is a moving target. Whereas functionality may still meet the need five or ten years from now, the security may no longer be adequate as security threats are constantly evolving. Consider the useful life of the product and beware high-risk engagements with little in the way of long-term relationship or support.
Regulatory compliance is not equal to security. Compliance with regulation does not necessarily mean good security. A security programme that is designed to only comply with regulations may be putting an organisation at significant risk.
Indicators of good practice. While a customer organisation may not be able to audit a supplier or test the security of their products or services, there are still indicators of good practice:

The supplier proactively tests their controls, regular penetration tests, or in good cases red team exercises.
Regular independent audit of their security controls.
The supplier demonstrates openness and transparency about their security controls.
The supplier has industry certifications such as ISO 27000-series, SOC 2, or other proprietary for-profit third-party certifications. Their products may comply with standards such as NIST CSF. While these indicators have limitations, they may point to a company culture that embraces the need for good security practices.
Supplier holds cyber insurance. While cybersecurity insurance is still an evolving field, underwriters often ask businesses for minimum levels of cybersecurity maturity before they are willing to assume a company’s risk by selling them a cybersecurity insurance policy. This is therefore another potential indicator that the company is doing the right things. More comments on cybersecurity insurance follow below.

5) Guidance on contractual forms of risk transfer (e.g., cyber insurance): Cybersecurity insurance is a growing business within the insurance industry and is an option for organisations to limit their exposure to some of the costs in the event of a security incident.
Some important considerations before purchasing cyber insurance follow:

First- vs third-party insurance: Is the policy providing the insured compensation for the impact from a breach/incident or only compensating the affected supplier?
Does the insurance cover only the legal fees or liability claims, or does it also cover loss of revenue/business or personal injury claims (given the care context)?
Does the insurance cover acts of war or terrorism? Note that some of the highest profile ransomware incidents of recent years have been attributed to governments rather than criminals, and therefore some insurance providers have considered them acts of war or terrorism and have disputed claims.
Cyber insurance is not a replacement for cybersecurity. Any short-term payout may well turn out to be insignificant compared to the long-term customer safety, reputational, or financial losses incurred as a result of an incident.

Another form of risk transference is identity federation. Organisations engaging with suppliers may opt to transfer identity risks to the supplier by requiring the supplier to issue or procure identity credentials certified by a Trust Framework that the buying organisation trusts. This allows the organisation to transfer the risk and expense of identity credentials to its suppliers rather than issue and manage supplier credentials themselves.
When federating identity management with suppliers, the organisation may consider requiring the supplier’s credentials to participate in a trust framework using a level of assurance that offers the buying organisation (relying party) insurance coverage in the event of identity compromise.

Audit Process
1) Defining the audit process: What does contractual verification mean and who performs contractual verification? Contractual verification simply means the process through which we can reasonably determine whether a supplier is meeting its contractual requirements and, if not, what remediations are necessary to close deficiencies.
An organisation’s resources may limit its ability to gain assurance that the security controls defined in the contract are operating effectively. It is important that every business in the supply chain – regardless of size – be considered for contractual verification. Risk of downstream suppliers may impact an organisation’s direct suppliers. This is often referred to as “Nth-party vendor risk”.
2) Identify controls to be verified and method of verification: Now it’s time to put these concepts into practice and verify the contractual obligations in place and establish the frequency with which those contracts need to be verified. The organisation should review the controls designed to mitigate risk and their implementation, including how well the control is supported by documented policy and procedures. Additionally, it is important to monitor the effectiveness of the control over time and report on degradation in effectiveness or failure of the control which could trigger a re-assessment and audit.
Regardless of whether the control was in place at the time the contract was signed or has been implemented since, the organisation has a number of techniques available in order to gain assurance that the contract terms are being honoured. The option(s) chosen will depend on:

The risk the supplier represents to the organisation.
The capability and capacity of the organisation’s internal resources to audit the supplier or request evidence, to interpret the responses received from the supplier, and to form a judgement.
The organisation’s ability to hire external specialist resources to gain assurance.
The contractual right to audit the supplier or their goodwill in supporting the organisation’s requests for assurance.

Options for gaining assurance that contractual agreements are being met include:

Enquiry with the supplier through ad hoc requests for information or regular touchpoints (for example as part of quarterly business reviews) whereby the organisation requests assurances from the supplier (i.e., attestation) that they are meeting the terms of the contract.Pros – easily done.
Cons – the organisation is reliant on the supplier’s collaboration and level of control over their own environment and processes.
Enquiry with the supplier supplemented by some previously agreed KPIs.Pros – commits the supplier to provide specific details.
Cons – the organisation is reliant on the supplier’s collaboration and requires subject matter expertise to interpret the data provided by the supplier.
Independent proxies for assurance, such as valid ISO 27000-series certification or PCI DSS compliance.Pros – such certifications are independent and require little subject matter expertise to interpret the response.
Cons – these certifications are unlikely to provide details for all of the controls which are most important to mitigate the risk the supplier represents to the organisation.
Subscribe to an “outside-in” cybersecurity risk monitoring and scoring service. These services provide external risk monitoring for a fee, gathering data and reporting cybersecurity posture based on the publicly visible digital footprint of suppliers.Pros – these services provide an easily digestible rating and a detailed report for the supplier to respond to, much like a credit rating and report.
Cons – they typically only provide insight into the supplier assets that are visible from the public internet and are prone to false positives and assets or systems being tagged to an organisation incorrectly.
Obtain an independent controls assessment such as AICPA SOC 1/2/3 reports (ideally at the supplier’s expense).Pros – these reports are standard and provide independent assurance from a qualified auditor.
Cons – the organisation will still require a level of subject matter expertise to interpret the output and draw a conclusion on the risk any gaps represent.
Conduct an audit of the controls or hire a third party to do so (ideally at the supplier’s expense).Pros – good quality assurance.
Cons – expensive, time-consuming, and assumes the organisational resources and the contractual right to audit already agreed with the supplier.

3) Conducting supplier audits: An audit should review the controls designed to mitigate risk and their implementation, including how well the control is supported by documented policy and procedures. Additionally, it is important to monitor the effectiveness of the control over time and report on degradation in effectiveness or failure of the control, which could trigger a re-assessment and audit.
The first step in conducting a supplier audit is to determine which controls in the contract are to be included in the audit. Contracts with suppliers and third-party partners must be used to implement appropriate measures designed to meet the objectives of an organisation’s cybersecurity programme and cyber supply chain risk management plan.
The next step is to determine the verification method for each control, including reports and other artefacts, attestation, or testing.
The frequency of audits depends on many risk factors. For example, the organisation may audit based on the supplier risk tier or change in the relationship. Some suppliers, such as those that pose little regulatory, operational, or security risk, can be assessed as part of the normal course of business operations, such as during initial onboarding and on a periodic basis. Organisations may do an audit for low-risk suppliers every two or three years.
In addition to inherent regulatory, operational, and security risks, certain events change risk and should trigger an audit. These events would include mergers and acquisitions, the launching of new product lines, entering new geographic regions, and the deploying of new software that could have an impact on risk.
4) Maintaining the verification process: Regardless of the methods an organisation chooses to evaluate a supplier’s compliance with the agreements, the assessment methods should be periodically reviewed and updated. To the extent possible, the verification methods should be standardised, automated, and streamlined.
The processes associated with contractual verification of supplier risk are not single events. A verification life cycle must be put into place and maintained. This includes not only the assessments and audits of suppliers but also continuously assessing internal third-party risk management policies, procedures, and controls.
5) Eliminating gaps in contractual compliance: As supplier contractual compliance verifications are completed, gaps may be discovered that may require the organisation to employ various risk treatment options such as:

Mitigate – when a supplier presents a moderate or high risk, the organisation may choose to work with the supplier and implement remediation or mitigation controls.
Transfer – when a supplier presents a moderate or high risk, the organisation may choose to transfer the risk to an insurance policy.
Accept – conversely, if the risk is high or moderate from a low-impact supplier, the organisation may decide to accept it as is.
Avoid – when a critical supplier presents a high risk and there is no agreed-to remediation or mitigation plan, the organisation may choose to avoid the risk altogether and terminate the agreement with the supplier.

An organisation should explore the above options as required; however, the organisation and suppliers should collaborate to remedy any identified gaps in a mutually acceptable way, and the remedy and milestones/timelines should be documented and agreed to in writing.
These contractual gaps to be remedied should be tracked throughout the life cycle of the supplier contract. Supplier relationships may be based on multiple contracts, which adds complexity to the verification and remediation process. Systematic and automated approaches are becoming available to help manage workflows, timelines, dependencies, approvals, and deliverables required through the contractual gap remediation process.

Response and Recovery
Establish procedures for response and recovery: The fact that small to medium-sized organisations are limited in their ability to assess risk and to hold suppliers accountable for meeting the terms of their contract means that being prepared for when an incident happens is especially valuable.
Organisations need to develop plans which can be put into action in the event of a supplier-related cybersecurity incident. Two types of plans must be considered:

Response plans, which support the ability to detect and contain the impact of a potential cybersecurity incident.
Recovery plans, which implement appropriate activities to maintain and/or to restore any capabilities or services that were impaired due to a cybersecurity incident.

NIST CSF establishes effective response, recovery planning, and testing protocols. To limit the impact of cyber incidents, we need planning and testing procedures in place so that an organisation can better respond to, and recover from, a supplier data or service availability incident.
Incident response and recovery processes can be summarised with the following stages:

Preparation: Establish and train a response team.
Detection and analysis: The organisation must establish mechanisms for suppliers to alert the organisation in a timely manner in the event of a breach or incident and understand the implications for the organisation.
Containment, eradication, and recovery: Depending upon the severity of the incident and the extent to which the organisation is impacted, the organisation can evaluate and determine the appropriate response to mitigate any impact and restore capabilities as needed.
Post-incident activity: After the organisation has adequately handled the incident, a report is produced detailing the cause, the costs, and what steps can be taken to prevent a similar incident from occurring in the future.


Establishing the team: As organisations rely on third-party suppliers to perform services, it is natural that some critical operations get moved into the cloud or outsourced completely. These operations may have a role in the incident response and recovery following a security or privacy incident at another supplier. For example, the organisation may need the assistance of its IT managed service provider if another supplier such as the HR and payroll processor has a data breach. For this reason, key supplier roles and responsibilities must be considered as part of the incident response and recovery process.
Suppliers should be included in the response plan as part of the contractual relationship. This may require adjusting the terms of the contract with a supplier, for example their hours of support or response time SLAs.
The roles and responsibilities of suppliers should also be captured in the response plan. One tool to effectively identify roles and responsibilities is a RACI matrix (Responsible, Accountable, Consulted, and Informed). A RACI may also help identify gaps in roles and responsibilities during the contracting period to ensure that all responsibilities are adequately addressed.
The RACI matrix is also an effective starting point to develop testing for the response and recovery plans. Each task assigned to the supplier in the matrix should be included in the test plan and evaluated from both a process and a performance standpoint. The organisation should develop written procedures and checklists that can be shared with the supplier.
It is also necessary to test a supplier’s ability to perform assigned tasks identified in the RACI. Organisations should develop test plans that integrate these tasks into their workflows, then establish minimum performance requirements. Suppliers should be notified of tests in advance, but also required through contractual clauses to participate in the organisation’s incident response and recovery exercises. The level of participation and performance requirements will be dependent on the supplier’s risk tier – e.g., clinical suppliers may have a higher degree of active participation. Similarly, refusal of a critical supplier to participate in such exercises should be considered and treated as a supplier risk in and of itself.
1) Creating the plan: Every organisation should have an incident response plan. Suppliers should be given a designated point of contact and backup within the organisation who would be informed in the event of an actual or suspected security incident. This point of contact should then assemble the incident team and work through a predefined incident plan. This plan may have much in common with the approach for an internal incident within the organisation, but it may differ given other factors specific to an incident at a critical supplier.
The overall response and recovery plan should consider the following (this is not an exhaustive list):
A. In the event of a security incident the supplier’s internal communications may be disrupted and the supplier may be unable or unwilling to share detailed specifics during the initial stage of a major incident. Therefore, the organisation should take contingency action while waiting on information from the supplier.
B. The plan should have predefined processes to:

Suspend VPN/Business-to-Business connectivity with the supplier if it exists.
Suspend any remote access the supplier may have to the organisation’s information systems and assets.
Change passwords of user IDs belonging to supplier employees, and/or disable user accounts.
Monitor email inbound from the impacted supplier; increase email filter sensitivity.
Alert employees who interact with the impacted vendor.
Ensure antivirus signatures are current.
Ensure critical systems are patched and up to date.
Ensure backups are operating effectively.
Avoid premature use of terms such as “data breach” which can have specific legal and regulatory ramifications; use instead “security event”.
Notify pre-identified points of contact and reinforce staff training on how to deal with requests for information from regulators, media, social media, or public interest channels.
Engage specialist third parties (for example cybersecurity forensics), as appropriate.
Request from the supplier incident details, including:Timeline.
Indicators of compromise.
Impacted systems.
Source of malware/compromise if known (e.g., credential phish).
Any information on likely target.
Any information on lateral movement tactics and techniques.
Actions taken.

2) Testing the plan: One of the most effective ways to close gaps in incident readiness is to perform tabletop exercises. These scenario-based simulations walk the organisation through a crisis and challenge the participants to assess the effectiveness of their established processes. Critical suppliers with a significant role in the scenario should be included in the exercise. The exercise will help identify gaps in processes, roles and responsibilities, and communication protocols.
These exercise scenarios should be as realistic as possible, attempting to stress existing processes that are relevant to a supplier’s operations. Some questions an exercise scenario can address include:
How would a catastrophic ransomware incident at a key supplier affect the organisation’s ability to execute its mission?
How robust is the supplier’s customer support and call centre redundancy?
Who is in charge if leadership can’t be reached immediately?
How are systems and lines of communication set up to ensure an effective failover when a data centre or cloud service provider is affected?
What communication must be conveyed to customers, regulators, the media, etc.?
What mitigations could be put in place? For example:

Is the contact list current?
What are the priorities (e.g., critical orders, key customers)?
What backup or workarounds exist for the impacted supplier’s product or service?
What manual processes can be established in advance (e.g., where are they stored, how are they trained and disseminated)?
Are there off-line copies of critical data such as customer contact lists, bank accounts, etc., and are they kept secure and up to date?
Should increased safety stocks, or agreements with peers to share safety stocks, be considered for certain critical products or materials as mitigation for an interruption in supply?

These exercises are intended to identify processes, procedures, and communication improvement opportunities in a collaborative environment rather than an actual emergency.
3) Post-testing activity: Events and exercises may reveal supplier process or capability improvement opportunities to reduce potential impacts on an organisation’s operations. Questionnaires or other mechanisms, whether a document, spreadsheet, or application, are useful in documenting these opportunities and essential to tracking the remediation of identified gaps in supplier business continuity and IT service disruptions plans. Additionally, periodically re-evaluate supplier relationships and contracts for changes in their business management, continuity management, and IT infrastructure.
Supplier risk management is an ongoing process. The advice provided is for small to medium-sized organisations operating in the sector that don’t necessarily have in-house cybersecurity subject matter experts.


Notes

Safari, A., Balicevac Al Ismail, V., Parast, M., Gölgeci, I., and Pokharel, S.,
