# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Tarnveer Singh - Digital Resilience, Cybersecurity and Supply Chains (2025, Taylor & Francis Group) - libgen.li (1)
Chapter: 10 - Month-on-month percentage of connected third parties with a vendor security risk assessment updated in the past 24 months and contractual language in their contracts with the Supplier which require cybersecurity controls.
Security Relevance Score: 13
Word Count: 1006
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:40

---

Month-on-month percentage of connected third parties with a vendor security risk assessment updated in the past 24 months and contractual language in their contracts with the Supplier which require cybersecurity controls.

[KPI Targets:

>90%]


Appendix E – Example Supplier Privacy and Security Incident Response Guide
Understanding the details of a supplier’s security or privacy incident is important to determine the risk to your organisation’s infrastructure as well as the extent to which your data may have been exposed. Quickly gathering information is necessary in order to determine the steps your organisation should take to further mitigate the issue and provide any required notifications to law enforcement, regulatory agencies, clients, and/or customers. Note that this list is not exhaustive as each security incident is different and may require additional research based on unique circumstances.
Supplier Contact Information/Incident Handlers
Name/title of the primary supplier contact:
Name of the supplier’s Information Security/Technical team contact(s):
Name of supplier’s legal counsel:
Phone numbers:
Email addresses:
Summary of the Security or Privacy Incident: The supplier should submit a summary explaining the incident. The summary, at minimum, should contain:

Identification of the incident type (breach, unintended disclosure, etc.).
Date the incident happened or date the incident started.
Date the incident was discovered by the supplier.
Date the supplier determined that your organisation’s data may be involved.
How the incident was identified and by whom.


Gather Incident Details: Ask the supplier to provide any details that are available at the time they report the incident to your organisation.

How did the attacker gain access to the supplier’s system(s) or data?
Was phishing or social engineering used to compromise the system or trick users into providing data?
What system vulnerabilities or weaknesses did the attacker exploit?
Has the incident been contained and any affected systems secured?
At what frequency will the supplier update your organisation as new information becomes available?

Determine the Impact of the Incident: Determine what type of information belonging to your organisation is (or may be) affected.

What type(s) of data were or may have been compromised?
How many total records were/may be involved in this incident?
How many of the impacted records belong to your organisation?
Was an analysis performed by the supplier’s security team and/or did the supplier engage a third party to assist in the investigation (e.g., forensics, legal, or security firm)?
Has data / system access / service been restored if systems were offline?

Mitigation: Collect information about the controls in place designed to prevent this type of incident. The information should include a description of what control(s) may have failed, the corrective actions taken, and planned control enhancements to prevent a reoccurrence of the incident.

What controls were in place prior to this incident to prevent such an occurrence?
What monitoring & alerting mechanisms were in place to detect the incident?
Have immediate actions been taken to stop the attack and purge the attacker’s access? If not, what actions are planned?
What steps have been taken to address the root cause of the incident?

Notifications: The supplier should provide a list of communications about the incident, including those already sent and any that are planned for future release.

Has the supplier communicated with affected individuals or organisations about the incident?
Have any reports been provided to state or federal regulators? If so, please list.
Has law enforcement (e.g., FBI, state police, other) been contacted?
Does the supplier plan to initiate a press release?
Will a notice be posted on the supplier’s website?
Will a copy of statements be provided for your organisation’s advance review/feedback?

Post-Incident Assessment and Corrective Actions: The supplier should provide a description of their post-incident review and how lessons learned will be used to ensure proper risk mitigation is applied to the affected systems and processes. The following questions should be answered:

Has the supplier determined the full extent of sensitive or protected information that was compromised?
Has the supplier performed a formal risk assessment in response to this incident?
What corrective actions or additional controls are planned and how long will implementation take?
Has or will a third party produce a full report on the incident for the supplier’s management team? Will the report be shared with your organisation?


Appendix F – NIST BIA & Contingency Planning Templates
NIST SP 800–34, Revision 1, Contingency Planning Guide for Federal Information Systems
These can be viewed at: https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/34/r1/upd1/final
This publication assists organisations in understanding the purpose, process, and format of information system contingency planning development through practical, real-world guidelines. The guidance provides background information on interrelationships between information system contingency planning and other types of security and emergency management-related contingency plans, organisational resiliency, and the system development life cycle. This document provides guidance to help personnel evaluate information systems and operations to determine contingency planning requirements and priorities.
Supplemental files include:

Business Impact Analysis (BIA) Template (docx).
Contingency Planning: Low Impact System Template (docx).
Contingency Planning: Moderate Impact System Template (docx).
Contingency Planning: High Impact System Template (docx).


Appendix G – NIST SP 800-53 Templates
NIST SP 800-53 Rev. 5 Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organisations
This can be viewed at: https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/sp/800/53/r5/upd1/final
This publication provides a catalogue of security and privacy controls for information systems and organisations to protect organisational operations and assets, individuals, other organisations, and the Nation from a diverse set of threats and risks, including hostile attacks, human errors, natural disasters, structural failures, foreign intelligence entities, and privacy risks.
Supplemental files include:

Control Catalog Spreadsheet.

The entire security and privacy control catalogue in spreadsheet format. Note: For a spreadsheet of control baselines, see the SP 800-53B details.

Security and Privacy Control Collaboration Index Template (Excel & Word).

The collaboration index template supports information security and privacy programme collaboration to help ensure that the objectives of both disciplines are met and that risks are appropriately managed. It is an optional tool for information security and privacy programmes to identify the degree of collaboration needed between security and privacy programmes with respect to the selection and/or implementation of controls in Rev.
