# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Tarnveer Singh - Digital Resilience, Cybersecurity and Supply Chains (2025, Taylor & Francis Group) - libgen.li (1)
Chapter: 2024 - Strategies for Protecting IT Supply Chains against Cybersecurity Threats. International Journal of Management & Entrepreneurship Research, 6(5), pp.1598–1606.
Sawik, T., 2024. Supply Chain Cybersecurity: Direct and Indirect Cyber Risks. In Stochastic Programming in Supply Chain Risk Management: Resilience, Viability, and Cybersecurity (pp. 293–322). Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland.
Herburger, M., Wieland, A., and Hochstrasser, C., 2024. Building Supply Chain Resilience to Cyber Risks: A Dynamic Capabilities Perspective. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 29(7), pp.28–50.
Website: https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework.
Website: https://www.cisecurity.org/controls/cis-controls-list.
Website: https://attack.mitre.org.
Website: https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.1305.ipd.pdf.
Ibiyemi, M.O., and Olutimehin, D.O., 2024. Cybersecurity in Supply Chains: Addressing Emerging Threats with Strategic Measures. International Journal of Management & Entrepreneurship Research, 6(6).
Ananthi, P., Devi, K.N., Gopinath, D., and Karthikeyan, C., 2024, March. Enhancing Cybersecurity in the Supply Chain through Predictive Analytics for Cyber Threats. In 2024 2nd International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Applications Theme: Healthcare and Internet of Things (AIMLA) (pp. 1–5). IEEE.
Kumar, M., Epiphaniou, G., and Maple, C., 2024. Comprehensive Threat Analysis in Additive Manufacturing Supply Chain: A Hybrid Qualitative and Quantitative Risk Assessment Framework. Production Engineering, pp.1–19.
Friday, D., Melnyk, S.A., Altman, M., Harrison, N., and Ryan, S., 2024. An Inductive Analysis of Collaborative Cybersecurity Management Capabilities, Relational Antecedents and Supply Chain Cybersecurity Parameters. International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/380824161_An_inductive_analysis_of_collaborative_cybersecurity_management_capabilities_relational_antecedents_and_supply_chain_cybersecurity_parameters.
Website: https://csf.tools/reference/nist-cybersecurity-framework/v2-0/gv/gv-sc.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1303.ipd.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-61r2.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8179.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1301.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.CSWP.32.ipd.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1302.ipd.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1303.ipd.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1309.ipd.
Website: https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/ir/8276/final.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-161r1.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-53r5.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8179.
Website: https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/cyber-supply-chain-risk-management/ssca.
Website: https://scrm.nist.gov.
Security Relevance Score: 22
Word Count: 5231
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:40

---

Strategies for Protecting IT Supply Chains against Cybersecurity Threats. International Journal of Management & Entrepreneurship Research, 6(5), pp.1598–1606.
Sawik, T., 2024. Supply Chain Cybersecurity: Direct and Indirect Cyber Risks. In Stochastic Programming in Supply Chain Risk Management: Resilience, Viability, and Cybersecurity (pp. 293–322). Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland.
Herburger, M., Wieland, A., and Hochstrasser, C., 2024. Building Supply Chain Resilience to Cyber Risks: A Dynamic Capabilities Perspective. Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 29(7), pp.28–50.
Website: https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework.
Website: https://www.cisecurity.org/controls/cis-controls-list.
Website: https://attack.mitre.org.
Website: https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.1305.ipd.pdf.
Ibiyemi, M.O., and Olutimehin, D.O., 2024. Cybersecurity in Supply Chains: Addressing Emerging Threats with Strategic Measures. International Journal of Management & Entrepreneurship Research, 6(6).
Ananthi, P., Devi, K.N., Gopinath, D., and Karthikeyan, C., 2024, March. Enhancing Cybersecurity in the Supply Chain through Predictive Analytics for Cyber Threats. In 2024 2nd International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Applications Theme: Healthcare and Internet of Things (AIMLA) (pp. 1–5). IEEE.
Kumar, M., Epiphaniou, G., and Maple, C., 2024. Comprehensive Threat Analysis in Additive Manufacturing Supply Chain: A Hybrid Qualitative and Quantitative Risk Assessment Framework. Production Engineering, pp.1–19.
Friday, D., Melnyk, S.A., Altman, M., Harrison, N., and Ryan, S., 2024. An Inductive Analysis of Collaborative Cybersecurity Management Capabilities, Relational Antecedents and Supply Chain Cybersecurity Parameters. International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management. https://www.researchgate.net/publication/380824161_An_inductive_analysis_of_collaborative_cybersecurity_management_capabilities_relational_antecedents_and_supply_chain_cybersecurity_parameters.
Website: https://csf.tools/reference/nist-cybersecurity-framework/v2-0/gv/gv-sc.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1303.ipd.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-61r2.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8179.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1301.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.CSWP.32.ipd.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1302.ipd.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1303.ipd.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.1309.ipd.
Website: https://csrc.nist.gov/pubs/ir/8276/final.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-161r1.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-53r5.
Website: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8179.
Website: https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/cyber-supply-chain-risk-management/ssca.
Website: https://scrm.nist.gov.












9

Supplier Risk Management Setup (Advice for SMEs)
DOI: 10.4324/9781003604969-9


SME Supplier Risk Management
SMEs must implement robust strategies to deal with supply chain risk and improve resilience or they will not survive. This is in the nature of having limited internal resources. SMEs are particularly at risk of supply chain disruption, which can prove catastrophic.1
Guidance is sorely needed for SMEs and non-IT professionals to help improve supply chain cybersecurity as there are major shortcomings in existing approaches.2
This chapter provides advice specifically for SMEs. The previous chapter provided guidance for enterprise and IT leadership. This chapter provides guidance particularly useful for non-IT professionals. This is general advice and covers the key issues they will need to consider. It broadly covers components of a supplier risk management programme and the foundational groundwork required to manage supplier cybersecurity risk.

Define supplier risk: Define risks to your organisation. Key risks that should be considered depend on the mission of your organisation and the nature of its relationships with suppliers.3 Cyber risk must be considered in the context of supplier risk, to include other drivers of enterprise business risk. Assess cyber risk and its impact across risk areas including but not limited to operational risk impacting day-to-day operations, safety risk impacting customers, employees, contractors, etc. Competitive risk impacts the ability to achieve goals (may include intellectual property, trade secrets, go to market, etc.). Quality risk impacts products services and business practices (may include product quality/sabotage/illicit re-use or re-sale, product service integrity, etc.). Reputation risk impacts damage to or loss of customer, business partner, or public confidence or perceived image. Compliance risk impacts losses and legal penalties for failure to comply with laws and regulations. Secondary risk involves the transfer of risk to business partners (may include avoiding, reducing, or transferring risk). Geopolitical risk involves the impacts of political events or instability, trade barriers, taxes, or economies.
Define roles and responsibilities: Having identified the key organisational risks, assign an executive sponsor to own the supplier cyber risk management programme and establish programme governance.

This role should provide governance, including:

Set the agenda.
Align vision, goals, milestones, and metrics.
Communicate risk appetite.
Direct resources to support goals.
Remove obstacles.
Receive updates.

It is crucial at this stage that the executive team should have accountability for business risks, and authority to prioritise, influence, and obtain organisational resources to address those risks. High-level executive leadership is essential.4
One method for structuring ownership and accountability within the enterprise is use of the “RACI” model – Responsible, Accountable, Consulted, Informed – which lays out roles and responsibilities for any activity or group of activities.5
Supply chain cybersecurity is a business risk, and not a technology risk.
3) Define supplier scope: Define the term “supplier” as it relates to your organisation. This may include any individual or entity that provides any type of service and/or product to the organisation. The word supplier may commonly refer to: supplier, vendor, service provider, consultant, external partner, third party, or business partner, etc.
Based on your definition, you will need to gather and document the entire inventory of your suppliers. You may need to consider multiple sources to gather this information – e.g., accounts payable, contracting, expense processes, etc. Knowing the size and scope before starting is important in order to prioritise resources and set realistic expectations on the size and complexity of the task.
4) Establish policies and procedures: Having defined the scope, you will need to define or update the policies supporting the supplier risk management programme at your organisation to formalise the organisation’s supplier risk management approach.
Define policies: The organisation’s policies should drive the definition of supplier risk management metrics and reporting requirements in support of the programme goals. Metrics should articulate the supplier risk posture of the supplier risk programme in the context of the organisation’s key business risks (established above). The metrics and targets should therefore be agreed with the sponsor and should be biased toward driving risk posture improvements and showing progress over time, rather than point-in-time or activity-based measures.
Metrics can be very useful. Distribution of suppliers by risk tier or by most relevant business risk impact are useful metrics. Number of suppliers not covered by a current security assessment is important for monitoring. Number of suppliers with known open risks and severity of those risks is useful for monitoring improvement. Contract consistency (inclusion of security requirements), volume of supplier assessments planned, in-process and up-coming are important metrics. Regulatory issues due to cyber concerns, externally reported incidents, and supplier audit findings are more overt forms of metrics.
Define supplier tiering: Tiering suppliers can be used to drive differences in both the assessment approach and other requirements – e.g., frequency of periodic re-assessments. Prioritisation is important to make the task manageable. A good approach is to establish tiers of suppliers which include dimensions such as spend, criticality of product or service to the mission of the organisation, safety, hosting or access to sensitive data or systems, etc. The tiering structure and prioritisation rules should be agreed and approved by the sponsor and governance committee.
5) Define supplier risk assessment approach: Risk assessment is crucial for effective supplier management.
Define lifecycle scope: The supplier risk management programme should encompass the end-to-end supplier lifecycle from pre-contracting through to termination of the supplier and its products and/or services, including any requirements for records retention and destruction. While supplier onboarding is a sensible place to start the implementation of the programme, it is important that the scope of the programme cover the full lifecycle. It should be noted however that the focus here is risk assessment of the supplier, not risk assessment of the supplier’s product. Lifecycle touchpoints to consider within the assessment programme include pre-contract/exploratory/innovation/business alliance development activities. Consistency of language and terms across all contracts is important. Ongoing monitoring, re-assessing supplier risk over time/re-validation (periodic or trigger-based). Examples of triggers include acquisition of supplier by another entity, change in scope of relationship, etc. End-of-relationship considerations/exit checklist (e.g., return of assets) are also crucial.
New suppliers acquired through mergers and acquisitions should be subjected to the same lifecycle approach and governed by the same programme principles. Perform a gap assessment and, as necessary, programme alignment and integration. When acquiring a legacy supplier risk management programme, any differences in acquired supplier risk assurance metrics may require re-assessment of particular suppliers.
Define risk treatment: Adopting accepted industry frameworks has the benefit of inherited acceptance and recognition from regulators, government entities, and the suppliers themselves, which helps reduce friction in the redlining and auditing processes.
Internationally recognised frameworks include the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cyber Security Framework and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 27000-series.
A consistent risk assessment framework should be developed to ensure standardisation of assessment and treatment options across all lines of business tailored to supplier tiering and the assessor organisation’s skills and resources. Common risk assessment approaches include supplier self-assessment questionnaires, which can be managed manually using spreadsheets, or automated with commercially available software. Evidence-based audits by the assessor or an independent third-party certification are useful. Framework audits and certifications act as proxies for assurance (e.g., ISO, NIST, commercial third-party certifications) and external sources of assurance (e.g., AICPA SOC 1/2/3 reports).
On-site assessments/supplier audits and external “outside-in” risk monitoring and scoring solutions that provide external risk monitoring are also useful as these involve gathering data and reporting cybersecurity posture based on the publicly visible digital footprint of suppliers.
The organisation must define an approach to treatment of identified supplier risk to include criteria for mitigating risk (implementing compensating controls). Transfer of risk is essential (e.g., cyber insurance, third-party credit card processing service, third-party service that leverages identity management trust framework). Accepting risk is necessary where a business decision is informed by an understanding of the risk vs the business value. Avoiding risk is needed to find an alternative supplier or alternative solution to meet the business need.
Outsourced approach to supplier risk management: Another option for organisations to consider is contracting a specialised third party to perform supplier risk assessments. Third parties that provide such services may have the skills and scale to perform this work more efficiently than doing it in-house. These and other service providers may also provide additional services to perform questionnaire-based or on-site assessments as well as conduct external risk monitoring using tools mentioned above.
Any organisation looking to outsource risk assessments may consider subscribing to a third-party risk management services partner. A number of for-profit and not-for-profit providers are available.
6) Supplier risk management as part of business operations: Having established the programme, the organisation needs to put in place the structure to sustain that programme on an ongoing basis. The following activities are recommended:
People

Assign executive sponsor.
Establish required staffing and skills:Role matrix supporting the processes.
Skills inventory supporting the role matrix.
Projection of required staffing for each role based on demand.
Train stakeholders and provide continual awareness of the programme.


Process

Establish executive governance that monitors health of the programme overall, including strategic direction, resourcing, etc.
Establish operational governance dealing with performance to plan, issue management, coordination of activities, including assessments and audits with supports, etc.
Establish and maintain a risk register or ideally integrate with an enterprise risk management programme.
Maintain the current supplier inventory, including a current supplier relationship owner. The recommendation is that procurement, as the gatekeeper of the contracting process, plays this role.
Provide sponsorship and organisational change management to ensure the required changes are harmonised with existing processes and integrated in business operations.
Track and communicate supplier risk posture and visibility.
Harmonise supplier assessment/engagement processes across functions and geographies to provide better user experience for both internal stakeholders and suppliers.
Document processes such as auditing, project management, task management, compliance, etc.


Tooling

Establish a single authoritative database for suppliers for the organisation.
Harmonise supplier assessment/engagement tools across functions and geographies to provide better user experience for both internal stakeholders and suppliers.
Ensure tooling provides capabilities for real-time visibility to the status of supplier risk management activities.
Leverage advanced technology for analytics and process automation to achieve higher scalability and efficiency.


Controlling

Collect data (ideally automatically) to drive metrics and measures.
Establish owners, targets, audience, communication cadence for metrics and measures.
Engage in benchmarking with industry partners to continuously improve the programme and processes.


Supplier Risk Governance
1) Define Organisation’s Supplier Risk Management Policy, and Establish Roles and Responsibilities.
Define and publish policy: The supplier risk management policy should be defined in consultation with the executive sponsor of the supplier risk management programme and, depending on the size of the organisation, representation from legal, procurement, IT, security, privacy, compliance, quality, and facilities. Define and document your organisation’s supplier risk management policy.
Policy documents should contain the purpose, scope, definition of terms used, roles and responsibilities, policy requirements (including pre-contracting due diligence, contracting, supplier governance and ongoing monitoring, and expiration/termination of supplier contract and relationship), exception management, approval matrix, effective date, and version history.
Establish roles and responsibilities: In addition to selecting an executive sponsor, it is important that the organisation define a business function that is directly responsible for owning the supplier inventory and maintaining its currency and accuracy. While IT may provide the underlying system, the inventory and process are more typically owned by procurement, finance, or legal.
2) Identify suppliers: It is foundational to identify a list of suppliers providing products or services to your organisation. The information gathered in this crucial step will drive prioritisation and enable risk scoring for each supplier. For some suppliers, further granularity may be required; for example, a large supplier with multiple geographies, services, and subsidiaries, which may have independent contracts representing different types of risk.
For existing suppliers, there can be many sources for inventory information. Some starting suggestions would be within departments like accounts payable, business associate agreements, contracts, IT inventory (CMDB, network, etc.), procurement, value added resellers (VARs) / aggregators, and data export from an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system.
Once existing suppliers are identified, it is important to maintain the currency and accuracy of the inventory by capturing any new, changing, or retired supplier relationships. Additional suggestions for process triggers to update the inventory include legal counsel, project management office (PMO), departmental strategic decisions, procurement teams, and risk committee.
In addition to the above process triggers, a periodic review of the supplier inventory is necessary to ensure accuracy, with frequency depending on the size and turnover within your organisation’s supplier inventory.
In terms of a supplier inventory system, where organisational resources allow, there are commercially available software options which enable workflow automation, collaboration, links to contract repository and risk assessments, data resiliency, version control, etc.
3) Prioritise suppliers: Once a complete list of suppliers with their products/services is captured, the next step is prioritising the suppliers so that risks can be adequately managed. Prioritisation categories and their associated weights will vary between organisations.
Below is a suggested starting point for prioritisation categories:
Annual spend: Referencing contracts, accounts payable, or procurement should produce the annual spend on a per-supplier or per-service basis. This “spend analysis” can be useful in prioritisation, especially when deciding which suppliers may be strategic vs transactional. The difference between a strategic and transactional supplier is determined by the relationship and the services they will provide. A strategic supplier typically has a long-term relationship and provides ongoing services for critical functions or business processes. A transactional supplier typically has a shorter duration contract and has limited scope and/or is project-focused.
Sensitive/confidential data: Referencing Business Associate Agreements, departmental assessments or the IT inventory may produce artefacts surrounding sensitive data types and counts. This prioritisation category may be important due to regulatory compliance and/or customer risk. Within this prioritisation, the volume of data as well as the sensitivity of each record should be considered.
Customer risk: Managers can provide valuable input and help rate any potential impact to customer risk. For example, the lack of availability of products, services, and technology may pose significant customer risk and should be considered in this exercise.
Revenue impact: Reference the ERP system, accounts payable, and other financial and sales departments to identify which suppliers’ products or services directly affect or impact revenue-generating services.
Operational impact/business criticality/geopolitical: Similar to revenue impact, work with stakeholders to understand if the in-scope products or services would have an impact on day-to-day operations (regardless of revenue). IT may also become a good resource for this information if the organisation has a mature disaster recover/business continuity programme and has performed a business impact analysis (BIA).
Regulatory compliance: Similar to the efforts performed in the “sensitive data” analysis, work with those teams to understand if the product or service is in-scope for any regulatory compliance issues (HIPAA, Sarbanes-Oxley, GxP, etc.).
Reputational impact: Work with legal counsel and departments to understand if any services or platforms may have reputational impact for the organisation (e.g., customer-facing websites, scheduling applications, etc.).
When identifying critical services and their level of criticality, organisations may consider the financial, operational, or strategic importance of the service, and any critical operations (including but not limited to critical functions) and core business lines therein that rely on it. They may consider the level of tolerance for disruption set by the organisation regarding the critical operations and core business lines that rely, or will rely, on the service. Another key factor is the nature of any data or information shared with the service provider. In particular, whether these data require increased security measures because they are crucial for the organisation’s critical operations, required for regulatory purposes, confidential, or sensitive (including but not limited to personal data). Organisations may take into account the impact of disruption to the relevant service or service provider on the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of these data. Another measure of criticality is the substitutability, or lack thereof, of a service. Services that are easily and readily substitutable may be less critical.
The criticality of a service can vary over time. Services that were originally not critical can become so gradually or upon the occurrence of certain events. Likewise, services that were critical can become less critical, or even become non-critical over time. Organisations can assess the criticality of a service prior to entering into a third-party service relationship and re-assess it regularly during scheduled review periods, when planning to change their use of the service, and when there is a material change to the service or the service provider (e.g., a corporate reorganisation or transaction, such as a merger, which may impact the provision of the relevant service).
Tiering the supplier: Based on the outcome of the identification and prioritisation steps, the organisation should tier its suppliers based on risk.
This tiering will allow for systematic risk assessment of suppliers. The organisation should define an appropriate tiering structure based on the inventory data and risk spread. This could be a High–Medium–Low tiering, or a similar two- or four-tier model, or others.
Onboarding due diligence can be carried out proportionate to the criticality of the relevant service.
Tools we can leverage as part of due diligence include those supporting analysis of relative benefits, costs, and risks of the proposed arrangement. They also include assessment of the service provider’s ability to provide the relevant service.
These may include the service provider’s:

Operational and technical capability and track record.
Financial soundness.
Internal controls and risk management, its ability to manage ICT, cyber, and operational risks.
Management of supply chain risks, including oversight of nth-party service providers.
Geographic dependencies and management of related risks.
Competencies of key personnel involved in service delivery.
Conflicts of interest.
Recent or pending relevant complaints, investigations, or litigation.
Ability to deliver the critical service allowing compliance with legal and regulatory obligations.
Ability to support business strategy and plans, including objectives for innovation.
Business continuity plans, contingency plans, disaster recovery plans, and other plans, including, if applicable, recovery time objectives, maximum tolerable downtime and similar concepts.
Level of substitutability of the service.

4) Assess supplier risk: There are many methods to assess supplier cybersecurity risk. The following two approaches applied separately or in combination represent best practices for small and medium-sized organisations.
Rely on Certifications (e.g., ISO 27000, NIST, PCI, SOC 2, other Third-party Certifications etc.)
Rather than performing an in-house assessment of the supplier’s cybersecurity posture, an alternative is to place reliance on one or more external certifications held by the supplier, provided independently by an authorised third party. There are varying levels of assurance and timing considerations for external certifications; an assessment based on a certification by itself does not guarantee the supplier’s cybersecurity posture. Additional analysis and review may be necessary for strategic suppliers (i.e., critical, high, tier 1, tier 2, etc.)

Table  9.1  Sample Cybersecurity Control Certifications


Description
AICPA SOC 2
ISO 27001
Commercial Third-party Assessments and Certifications





The AICPA & CIMA SOC 2 report evaluates an organisation’s informationsystems relevant to security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality, or privacy. SOC 1 reports are also available; however, these are focused on IT controls supporting financial accounting accuracy.
An information security standard, part of the ISO 27000 family of standards, which specifies a management system to bring information security under management control and gives specific control requirements.6
Other proprietary third-party assessments and certifications provided by different vendors are available with different levels of industry penetration and acceptance. For the most part these certifications are based on or take elements of other established standards such as NIST CSF and ISO 27000-series.


Rationale for Inclusion
Widely recognised framework by non-IT/IS professionals.
International standard with a relatively high adoption rate.
Third-party certifications provide an alternative way for suppliers to provide assurance on their security posture.



The following certifications are common examples which provide broad-based coverage for cybersecurity controls assurance:
Assessment of supplier’s cybersecurity posture: For strategic suppliers, organisations should perform an assessment as frequently as needed for business operations, but at a minimum annually. Based on the outcome of the assessment, contracts may need to be updated, and executive management informed for awareness and to enable them to make decisions about the relationship.
Once the assessment is completed and returned, review the colour coding of the results and the comments made by the supplier. While the reality is that there may be shades of grey in some of the responses, controls need to be assessed, and therefore if the supplier is unable to meet one of these requirements fully, it is necessary to consider the amount of risk the organisation is willing to assume by engaging with the supplier. As already mentioned above, it may be advantageous to contract with qualified assessor organisations for this risk assessment activity.
As part of the assessment process, third-party security services provide data on a supplier’s public-facing cybersecurity posture. Such services provide a useful data point but should not be considered as much assurance of an organisation’s cybersecurity posture.
5) Respond to supplier risk assessment: The supplier risk management programme’s executive sponsor is required (potentially in consultation with legal counsel) to take a position on the amount of risk the organisation is willing to accept. The output of the supplier inventory, prioritisation, and assessment process should be reviewed initially (and then periodically thereafter) with senior leadership so that supplier risks can be understood and measured in the context of that risk appetite, and appropriate recommendations can be made.
Once the risk posture of the supplier is identified and measured, if the risk level falls within the risk appetite established by the executive sponsor, the next step is for the organisation to ensure that the contract with that supplier adequately covers the necessary controls. Robust documentation should be maintained showing identified risks, decisions taken in response and, where appropriate, requirements for supplier accountability for implementation of mitigations of identified risks.
If the risk level falls outside the risk appetite of the organisation, the following steps are recommended:

Document the identified risks and business impact for the organisation.
Determine if additional controls or mitigations (which may include cybersecurity insurance) can be implemented by the supplier within a satisfactory timeframe.
Inform the executive sponsor of the recommendation.

If the decision from the executive sponsor is to continue the relationship, the purchasing organisation should work with the supplier to update the contract to reflect additional control requirements and mitigations to be implemented in line with committed timeframes.
Changing requirements in a current contractual engagement with a supplier may result in the organisation bearing the price of cybersecurity enhancements implemented by its suppliers. To combat this effect, organisations may strategically plan to include cybersecurity requirements when contracts with vendors expire and/or are renewed. As a result, suppliers may choose to absorb the cost of cybersecurity enhancements in order to retain the business of the purchasing organisation.
If the supplier is unable or unwilling to update or modify its practices or capabilities to meet the required risk level, the executive sponsor must decide whether to accept the risk and continue the relationship or terminate the engagement.
If the decision from the executive sponsor is to terminate the relationship, the organisation should initiate its sourcing process to find an alternative supplier, using the same cybersecurity risk assessment approach as part of the selection process.
Additional controls measures firms could implement to protect data can be set out in an outsourcing policy and, where appropriate, in contracts.
Supplier firms must implement robust controls for data in transit, data in memory, and data at rest. Depending on the materiality and risk of the arrangement, these controls may include a range of preventive and detective measures, including but not necessarily limited to:

Configuration management. This is a particularly important measure. In the context of cloud, misconfiguration of cloud services can be a major cause of data breaches.
Encryption and key management.
Identity and access management, which should include stricter controls for individuals whose role can create a higher risk in the event of unauthorised access (e.g., systems administrators). Firms should be particularly vigilant about privileged accounts becoming compromised as a result of phishing attacks and other leaking or theft of credentials.
Monitoring of “insider threats” (i.e., employees at the firm and at the third party who may misuse their legitimate access to firm data for unauthorised purposes maliciously or inadvertently). The term “employee” should be construed broadly for these purposes and may include contractors, secondees, and sub-outsourced service providers.
Access and activity logging.
Incident detection and response.
Loss prevention and recovery.
Data segregation (if using a multi-tenant environment).
Operating system, network, and firewall configuration.
Staff training.
The ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of the service provider’s controls, including through the exercise of access and audit rights.
Policies and procedures to detect activities that may impact firms’ information security (e.g., data breaches, incidents, or misuse of access by third parties) and respond to these incidents appropriately (including appropriate mechanisms for investigation and evidence collection after an incident).
Procedures for the deletion of firm data from all the locations where the service provider may have stored it following an exit or termination, provided that access to the data is no longer needed by the firm. When deciding when to delete data, firms will need to consider their obligations under data protection law and their potential data retention obligations.

Where data is encrypted, firms should ensure that any encryption keys or other forms of protection are kept secure by the firm or outsourcing provider. The ability of service providers to respond to customer-specific data security requests may vary depending on the service being provided. Generally, the more standardised the service, the more difficult it might be for the service provider to accommodate these requests. The overall effectiveness of the service provider’s security environment should be at least as effective as their in-house security environment.

Contracts And Performance

Contracts and cybersecurity risk: All supplier relationships involving the procurement of goods or services that are enabled by, or dependent on, technology or data involve a degree of cybersecurity risk. Contracts by themselves do not mitigate risks completely. They may facilitate the transfer of risk to a supplier or insurance provider, but are more commonly effective in:Clarifying the roles and responsibilities for the controls that the contracting parties commit to enact to manage the risk.What is the buyer committing to do in order to ensure security?
What is the supplier committing to do in order to ensure security?
Stipulating mechanisms whereby the contracting parties can gain visibility to adherence (or not) to the contractual commitments made over time – e.g., sharing independent audit reports, scan/test reports, on-site audits, etc.
Establishing service level agreements, patching vehicles, and disclosure requirements in the case of a security incident or new vulnerability being discovered. Language should include definitions of a breach or incident, committed timeframes for customer notification, root cause analysis, restoration of service, producing a patch or implementation of long-term resolution, etc.
Ensuring that the supplier applies the same contractual requirements to any subcontractors/suppliers they involve in the provision of the product or service to the customer.

A contract may give the purchasing organisation a level of confidence in the safeguards promised by the supplier, as it forms the basis on which a legal claim can be made in the event losses are suffered through a cybersecurity incident. However, it is important that the purchasing organisation understands that after-the-fact legal recourse may be of little comfort when stacked against the reality of operational losses, reputational damage (regardless of actual liability), or even customer harm in the event of an incident. Therefore, even with the contractual assurances provided by the supplier, the purchasing organisation should ensure that the value created for the organisation by entering into a relationship with the supplier outweighs the potential risks to its stakeholders (customers, employees, other suppliers, communities, the environment, and any stock-holders).
2) Contractual clauses: The requirements are designed to be specific enough to be actionable and drive accountability on the part of the supplier, while being modest enough in their aspirations that they represent a minimum level of security good practice that any organisation of any scale should be able to meet. If an organisation’s supplier is unable or unwilling to meet the requirements articulated in this template, that may be an indicator of their scale and level of maturity and consequently may be a cause for concern.
Guidance on the redlining process (that is, the process by which the legal representatives of each contracting party negotiate on the contractual language) follows. However, it is important to note that as a generic starting point, the relevance and importance of the different controls described in the template will depend on the nature of the relationship with the supplier and the risk that represents for your operations and those whose data you hold or who rely on your products and services. Therefore, establishing which threats and which supplier relationships are most critical to your operations and to the stakeholders is an essential starting point.
Understanding that the audience for this document is non-technical, each control within the contractual boilerplate is tagged to one or more of these threats to help the purchasing organisation understand the implications if a supplier is unable or unwilling to commit to a given control in the contract.
Before commencement of the contracting process, consult Table 9.2 and identify the most relevant threats and how your organisation and customers could be put at risk through an incident at the supplier, or how the relationship with the supplier could introduce them into your environment.
This language can then be added into your own contract document, or into the supplier’s document if the contracting is to take place on their paper. If the supplier is unwilling to add these requirements into their contract you should insist that they demonstrate equivalence. These requirements are considered to be the minimum base which any organisation should be willing to meet (they are after all in the supplier’s own self-interest).
Consider leveraging the template in Table 9.
