# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Travis DeForge - Ultimate Penetration Testing with Nmap_ Master Cybersecurity Assessments for Network Security, Monitoring, and Scanning Using N (2024, Orange Education Pvt Ltd, AVA™) - libgen.li
Chapter: 51 - Over time, more and more major corporations worldwide began reporting CVE IDs upon discovery of new vulnerabilities to ensure cyber-defenders worldwide had access to the pertinent information as soon as possible. Another critical added benefit is that having a common identifier for a specific vulnerability allows security professionals in different organizations to more easily collaborate on, research, and discuss those unique vulnerabilities.
Vulnerabilities is another word that is used frequently in the information security industry and can have different meanings based on context. When discussing CVEs always consider the following definition of a vulnerability taken directly from cve.org:
“A weakness in the computational logic (e.g., code) found in software and hardware components that, when exploited, results in a negative impact to confidentiality, integrity, or availability. Mitigation of the vulnerabilities in this context typically involves coding changes, but could also include specification changes or even specification deprecations (e.g., removal of affected protocols or functionality in their entirety).”
As briefly discussed previously, the presence of a CVE on a specific system or software does not necessarily mean that it can be meaningfully exploited, it simply means that a security researcher or organization has identified a weakness. While some CVEs such as 2019-0708 (also known as BlueKeep) represent an critical remote code execution vulnerability in some legacy Windows systems that can very easily be exploited; most CVEs do not have nearly as high of a potential impact or ease of exploitation.
To gauge the legitimate impact of a CVE and to aid in prioritizing remediation efforts, many organizations will use what is called the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS). The CVSS is a method of qualitatively measuring the severity of a vulnerability from 0 (no impact) to 10 (critical). CVSS is owned and maintained by FIRST, which is a US-based non-profit organization focused on aiding security and incident response teams worldwide. While a 1 to 10 scoring range may seem simple, the calculation is actually quite complex and takes into account many aspects such as attack complexity, impact on the CIA, what privilege level is required for exploitation, and many more.
While the CVSS score certainly is very widely used, one criticism of the system is that it lacks context into the potential impact of the vulnerability. Take for example, two different CVEs with the same CVSS rating of 9.8:
Security Relevance Score: 12
Word Count: 758
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:38

---

Over time, more and more major corporations worldwide began reporting CVE IDs upon discovery of new vulnerabilities to ensure cyber-defenders worldwide had access to the pertinent information as soon as possible. Another critical added benefit is that having a common identifier for a specific vulnerability allows security professionals in different organizations to more easily collaborate on, research, and discuss those unique vulnerabilities.
Vulnerabilities is another word that is used frequently in the information security industry and can have different meanings based on context. When discussing CVEs always consider the following definition of a vulnerability taken directly from cve.org:
“A weakness in the computational logic (e.g., code) found in software and hardware components that, when exploited, results in a negative impact to confidentiality, integrity, or availability. Mitigation of the vulnerabilities in this context typically involves coding changes, but could also include specification changes or even specification deprecations (e.g., removal of affected protocols or functionality in their entirety).”
As briefly discussed previously, the presence of a CVE on a specific system or software does not necessarily mean that it can be meaningfully exploited, it simply means that a security researcher or organization has identified a weakness. While some CVEs such as 2019-0708 (also known as BlueKeep) represent an critical remote code execution vulnerability in some legacy Windows systems that can very easily be exploited; most CVEs do not have nearly as high of a potential impact or ease of exploitation.
To gauge the legitimate impact of a CVE and to aid in prioritizing remediation efforts, many organizations will use what is called the Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS). The CVSS is a method of qualitatively measuring the severity of a vulnerability from 0 (no impact) to 10 (critical). CVSS is owned and maintained by FIRST, which is a US-based non-profit organization focused on aiding security and incident response teams worldwide. While a 1 to 10 scoring range may seem simple, the calculation is actually quite complex and takes into account many aspects such as attack complexity, impact on the CIA, what privilege level is required for exploitation, and many more.
While the CVSS score certainly is very widely used, one criticism of the system is that it lacks context into the potential impact of the vulnerability. Take for example, two different CVEs with the same CVSS rating of 9.8:

CVE 2018-0171: A remote code execution in Cisco IOS and IOS XE software that can be exploited to take over networking devices.
CVE 2018-12671: A remote information disclosure that exposes the password sets within an IP-based camera.

While both of these are individually very severe vulnerabilities that allow a remote attacker to effectively gain control over a device; the real impact to the organization is substantially different. A malicious actor taking over networking equipment such as switches can lead to a devastating cascading compromise of the network, whereas a malicious actor gaining access to a security camera feed is comparatively quite insignificant. The disparity of context regarding practical impact is something to always keep in mind when utilizing CVSS scores.
Introduction to Nmap Scripting Engine
Among the most powerful features Nmap has to assist you in enumerating CPEs, identifying CVEs, and even in some cases exploiting systems is the Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE). This feature enables users to create custom scripts written in Lua. It is no exaggeration to say that there are hundreds of NSE scripts that have been open-sourced and are readily available, the majority of which are included in a database that is available by default when you install Nmap.
While some of the scripts are fairly complex and sophisticated in their functioning, utilizing them is extremely simple, as you just specify the “--script” flag followed by the name of the NSE script. To get additional insight into what the script does before running it, using the –script-help command is extremely helpful.
In the following example, we can see that the script vulners.nse takes the available CPEs and makes a request to the vulners.com API to retrieve and print out information on specific vulnerabilities along with the CVSS score:



Figure 4.1: Displaying the functionality of vulners.nse
Also, interesting to point out, the vulners.nse script is classified into the categories vuln, safe, and external. At a high level, this indicates that the script is related to identifying vulnerabilities, is safe to run, will not negatively impact the targets, and queries an external data source. There are 13 categories of NSE scripts, which will be discussed in far more detail along with instructions on writing your own custom scripts in
