# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Travis DeForge - Ultimate Penetration Testing with Nmap_ Master Cybersecurity Assessments for Network Security, Monitoring, and Scanning Using N (2024, Orange Education Pvt Ltd, AVA™) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1997 - That’s right, this wonder tool, claimed to elevate your penetration testing skillset to new heights, was released before Google. However, despite its age, just as technology has advanced over the last couple of decades, Nmap has kept pace with regular updates, new features, improvements, and community contributions, which add to its incredible versatility.
To understand what Nmap is, we first need to understand its most basic function, port scanning. Fundamentally, a port is a virtual anchor point that is used to associate particular services and enable computer systems to sort and effectively process the network traffic that is being received. In total, over 65 thousand ports utilize the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) or the User Datagram Protocol (UDP). Both TCP and UDP are standards that define how a connection between two systems is established and dictate the method by which data can be transmitted between them. However, the distinction between these two protocols is critical to understand if you want to truly become an expert-level user of Nmap.
TCP is used for protocols that require secure transmission of data between the sender and receiver. This is accomplished by establishing what is known as a three-way handshake. During this exchange, the originating system will first send a synchronize (SYN) packet to the receiving system, once received that system will reply with an acknowledgment (SYN-ACK), and the originating system will then reply to that reply with an acknowledgment of the acknowledgment (ACK) before sending any additional data.
Security Relevance Score: 10
Word Count: 572
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:38

---

That’s right, this wonder tool, claimed to elevate your penetration testing skillset to new heights, was released before Google. However, despite its age, just as technology has advanced over the last couple of decades, Nmap has kept pace with regular updates, new features, improvements, and community contributions, which add to its incredible versatility.
To understand what Nmap is, we first need to understand its most basic function, port scanning. Fundamentally, a port is a virtual anchor point that is used to associate particular services and enable computer systems to sort and effectively process the network traffic that is being received. In total, over 65 thousand ports utilize the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) or the User Datagram Protocol (UDP). Both TCP and UDP are standards that define how a connection between two systems is established and dictate the method by which data can be transmitted between them. However, the distinction between these two protocols is critical to understand if you want to truly become an expert-level user of Nmap.
TCP is used for protocols that require secure transmission of data between the sender and receiver. This is accomplished by establishing what is known as a three-way handshake. During this exchange, the originating system will first send a synchronize (SYN) packet to the receiving system, once received that system will reply with an acknowledgment (SYN-ACK), and the originating system will then reply to that reply with an acknowledgment of the acknowledgment (ACK) before sending any additional data.



Figure 1.1: TCP Three-Way Handshake Diagram
Does this seem slightly redundant? It is, but it is redundant to ensure that a full connection is made with the system. If at any point the three-way handshake is interrupted, such as by an Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) or firewall, a full connection will not be established, and thus the data will not be sent from the sender to the receiver; in these instances, instead of an ACK packet, a reset (RST) will typically be sent.
Most of the common services you will be searching for during security engagements will be served over common TCP ports such as 80 (Hypertext Transfer Protocol, or HTTP) and 443 (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure). Don’t worry, we will discuss all the common ports to be aware of and how to fingerprint them later. The key takeaway from TCP is that it is a secure connection, requiring an acknowledgment from the receiver to be established, and that process is known as the three-way handshake.
In contrast to the three-way handshake verification between the sender and receiver that is utilized in TCP, UDP takes a far more haphazard approach. UDP speeds up the process by neglecting to establish a formal connection in the first place. So rather than wait for an acknowledgment from the receiver, a computer utilizing UDP will just send the packet immediately. This certainly increases the speed of the data transmission, but that increase in speed comes with a decrease in reliability as packets can become lost in the process. In introduction to Networking courses, most of the examples surrounding UDP relate to video transmission where it is paramount to the consumer to avoid the dreaded buffering lag. While you will occasionally see UDP being used for video transmissions in penetration tests (security camera feeds come to mind), several other protocols tend to be far riper for exploitation such as the Intelligence Platform Management Interface (IPMI), which is often seen on UDP port
