# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Travis DeForge - Ultimate Penetration Testing with Nmap_ Master Cybersecurity Assessments for Network Security, Monitoring, and Scanning Using N (2024, Orange Education Pvt Ltd, AVA™) - libgen.li
Chapter: 7 - Advanced Obfuscation and Firewall Evasion Techniques, we will build on every introductory and intermediate level skill and technique discussed so far and craft some incredibly intricate and complex scans designed to remain undetected on the network. These techniques do inherently have a more niche use than others, as in the majority of penetration tests, there is not a large emphasis on remaining undetected. Instead, we will discuss and explore these techniques from the perspective of purple and red teaming engagements, where your objective is to bypass security controls and avoid detection.
Points to Remember
Security Relevance Score: 9
Word Count: 378
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:38

---

Advanced Obfuscation and Firewall Evasion Techniques, we will build on every introductory and intermediate level skill and technique discussed so far and craft some incredibly intricate and complex scans designed to remain undetected on the network. These techniques do inherently have a more niche use than others, as in the majority of penetration tests, there is not a large emphasis on remaining undetected. Instead, we will discuss and explore these techniques from the perspective of purple and red teaming engagements, where your objective is to bypass security controls and avoid detection.
Points to Remember

Zenmap and Legion are frameworks with which you can launch custom Nmap scans, open and sort existing Nmap result files, and efficiently comprehend the attack surface.
Legion also provides the ability to seamlessly trigger additional tools found in Kali Linux based on the results of the Nmap scanning. This ability to chain together conditions, tools, and actions provides a highly flexible semi-autonomous pentesting framework.
The true value of these tools is when dealing with medium or large scopes where the output in the command line from Nmap would simply be too verbose and inefficient to fully analyze.
Zenmap is very easy to install on Windows and macOS systems, while Legion is installed in Kali Linux by default.
Saving organized scan data from Zenmap or Legion allows for convenient collaboration with the rest of your penetration testing team.

Multiple Choice Questions

Which Legion timing option would be most appropriate for a medium to large size scope?

Aggressive
Polite
Sneaky
Insane
In Zenmap custom scans that can be preconfigured and saved for future use are called what?

Configs
Profiles
Presets
Quick-Scans
True or false: Legion can be configured to launch NSE scripts automatically?

True
False
For scanning a large environment with Legion, what changes should you consider making to legion.conf?

Adjust the SchedulerSettings to add additional triggered actions
Adjust the StagedNmapSettings to reduce the number of ports scanned
Specify reduced Host Timeout within the StagedNmapSettings
Remove all SchedulersSettings
Which feature exists only in Zenmap and not Legion?

Scan results comparison
Importing .xml files
Sorting results by host or service
Adding filters to results
Which feature exists only in Legion and not Zenmap?

Intuitive interface
Ability to save modified files
Autonomously triggering additional tools
Customized scanning

Answers
