# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Travis DeForge - Ultimate Penetration Testing with Nmap_ Master Cybersecurity Assessments for Network Security, Monitoring, and Scanning Using N (2024, Orange Education Pvt Ltd, AVA™) - libgen.li
Chapter: 5 - Mapping a Large Environment.
Points to Remember
Security Relevance Score: 8
Word Count: 292
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:40:38

---

Mapping a Large Environment.
Points to Remember

Most often a cascading compromise within a network environment comes from identifying the vulnerabilities that stem from misconfigurations, inherently flawed protocols, and significant technical debt.
Nmap scripts are extremely versatile and can be used for very broad things such as vulnerability scanning of all services (vulners.nse) as well as very nuanced purposes like identifying instances of Jenkins (broadcast-jenkins-discover).
There are limitless ways to conduct vulnerability scanning with Nmap, the options for adding or subtracting obfuscation, highly detailed probes, and additional context are limited mostly by the creativity of the user.
Nmap scripts are written in Lua and provide an easy way to add tremendous functionality to suit your individual use case.
High-quality penetration testing cannot be boiled down to a checklist. Each pentest is different and requires a lot of careful thought and analysis to complete.

Multiple Choice Questions

NSE scripts are written in which language?

Python
Java
Lua
Ruby
The -F flag indicates Nmap will scan what number of top ports?

10
100
1,000
10,000
The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP)’s 2021 edition of Top 10 Vulnerabilities in Web Apps found that over 90% of applications had a vulnerability in which category?

Injection
Security Misconfiguration
Cryptographic Failures
Software and Data Integrity Failures
Which technique sends varying types of probes to the gateway and based on the TTL and reply ascertains if a firewall rule is impacting that port?

ICMP Ping
TCP Port Scan
Firewalking
Firewalling
Typically, before identifying CVEs associated with an endpoint, you should first determine which of the following?

CVS
CBS
NAT
CPE
True or False: Nmap has invasive and exploitative scripts?

True
False
Which of the following services is inherently flawed from a security perspective?

SMB
IPMIv2
SFTP
SMTP

Answers
