# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2014 - They were not adequately informed. According to the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), cybersecurity incidents have increased by 42% from 2011 to 2012 and continue to increase rapidly.
The continuing increase in large-scale cybersecurity breaches has cost organizations millions to develop protection mechanisms, install firewalls, and hire technologists to monitor and intercept cyberattacks. Organizations continue to allocate large budgets for research, hoping to find solutions that may reduce their high-risk levels. So far, there is a rich array of cyber protection systems available. However, a comprehensive solution that would put cybersecurity managers at ease is not yet found. As a result, organizations are continuing to build formal information security frameworks to stay ahead of the hackers’ community.
Security Integrity Reviewed 
Business reputation is equal to the increase in revenues. The loss of integrity could have a lasting negative impact on a business operation. Companies that have their data compromised over prolonged periods could encounter significant difficulties in their recovery process. All critical data should be kept under layers of data security. Access to passwords and PIN codes is a sure way to lose critical data to cybercriminal networks.
Questions that organizations’ leaders should ask are (1) What is the risk of not keeping data safe? (2) What happens when data is stolen? (3) What is the cost of data restoration? (4) Who is responsible for protecting your data? (5) How can data loss impact the owner? The contemplation of these questions may help the organizations’ leaders understand the peril of data loss and restoration. Five major cybersecurity risks to watch out for are (1) cyber cloud abuse, (2) hacking, (3) shadow IT systems, (4) cookies access, and (5) malware attacks.
The loss of critical data and the inability to restore the data in a timely manner could result in chaos and confusion. Depending on the situation, it could even cause the loss of precious lives. Data that is lost carry an unknown risk and keeps the owner in unending suspense. The lack of data integrity and availability could harm an organization’s long-term goals and objectives.
Common Causes of Data Loss Reviewed
Data loss is common due to the unreliability of mechanical and digital systems. In some regions, data loss may occur due to frequent power outages, faulty internet lines, weak Wi-Fi transmissions, and poor mobile technology.
According to consoltech.com, there are 10 common causes of data loss. These 10 causes are:
Security Relevance Score: 13
Word Count: 1408
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

They were not adequately informed. According to the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), cybersecurity incidents have increased by 42% from 2011 to 2012 and continue to increase rapidly.
The continuing increase in large-scale cybersecurity breaches has cost organizations millions to develop protection mechanisms, install firewalls, and hire technologists to monitor and intercept cyberattacks. Organizations continue to allocate large budgets for research, hoping to find solutions that may reduce their high-risk levels. So far, there is a rich array of cyber protection systems available. However, a comprehensive solution that would put cybersecurity managers at ease is not yet found. As a result, organizations are continuing to build formal information security frameworks to stay ahead of the hackers’ community.
Security Integrity Reviewed 
Business reputation is equal to the increase in revenues. The loss of integrity could have a lasting negative impact on a business operation. Companies that have their data compromised over prolonged periods could encounter significant difficulties in their recovery process. All critical data should be kept under layers of data security. Access to passwords and PIN codes is a sure way to lose critical data to cybercriminal networks.
Questions that organizations’ leaders should ask are (1) What is the risk of not keeping data safe? (2) What happens when data is stolen? (3) What is the cost of data restoration? (4) Who is responsible for protecting your data? (5) How can data loss impact the owner? The contemplation of these questions may help the organizations’ leaders understand the peril of data loss and restoration. Five major cybersecurity risks to watch out for are (1) cyber cloud abuse, (2) hacking, (3) shadow IT systems, (4) cookies access, and (5) malware attacks.
The loss of critical data and the inability to restore the data in a timely manner could result in chaos and confusion. Depending on the situation, it could even cause the loss of precious lives. Data that is lost carry an unknown risk and keeps the owner in unending suspense. The lack of data integrity and availability could harm an organization’s long-term goals and objectives.
Common Causes of Data Loss Reviewed
Data loss is common due to the unreliability of mechanical and digital systems. In some regions, data loss may occur due to frequent power outages, faulty internet lines, weak Wi-Fi transmissions, and poor mobile technology.
According to consoltech.com, there are 10 common causes of data loss. These 10 causes are:

HUMAN ERRORS
Viruses and Malware
Hard Drive Damage
Power Outages 
Computer or Laptop Theft 
Liquid Damage, Disasters 
Software Corruption 
Hard Drive Formatting 
Hackers and Insiders 
disaster

agencies can take many low-cost steps to boost recovery; private sector providers can back up government information assets. Crashplan.com recommended the following measures to prevent data loss. (1) Establish the data owners, (2) Identify representatives from each area of the business, (3) Document known risks, (4) Specify data, (5) Use appropriate technologies, (6) Use the tools that are most critical to maintain a secure inventory system, (7) Maintain physical assets, (8) Determine where and how critical business information will be backed up, and (9) Create a communication plan, and practice.
Open Internet and Security Risk Reviewed
The open environment of the internet contributes significantly to its success. However, the door is also opened for cybersecurity issues. Network security issues fall into at least two major categories. (1) Unauthorized attempts to access private data through the internet and internal networks and (2) Disruptions such as natural disasters and computer viruses. While errors allow for some attempts, many attempts are made with criminal intent.
Five security risks to be considered are as follows. (1) An inherent risk involving vulnerabilities occurs due to the internet’s magnitude. (2) Security incidents occur due to technological weaknesses due to deficiencies in software and hardware products. (3) Many internet weaknesses happen through communication protocols. Protocols define the set of rules by which networks interact with each other. (4) Deficiencies in computer and application programs could allow a threat to occur that would affect business productivity. (5) Productivity could be hindered, and profits decrease because of security risks.
Managing a proper process to prevent risks in cybersecurity is crucial for all users. The risk management process starts with the development of clearly defined policies and consistent risk assessment. Organizations should prepare in advance and invest in major protective mechanisms rather than repair the damage when it occurs. In addition, organizations should be proactive rather than reactive in their security management. Successful businesses, in general, develop strategic security plans to protect their systems from cyber invaders. Experts suggest that risk can be mitigated if management strategy involves planning, identifying, analyzing, and controlling the elements that undermine cybersecurity. The cybersecurity management team’s responsibility is to reduce risk by establishing a contingency plan which includes updating the information regularly and installing a robust backup system.
Limitations of Data Loss and Restoration
There are limitations in data management, and even with the most reliable systems, critical data may be lost in translation. Cloud technology provides secure and reliable storage and backup facilities; however, data loss still occurs due to data leaks and equipment malfunctions. Big data companies are working on securing their servers to avoid data loss; nevertheless, technical and human errors still happen. No cybersecurity system is foolproof. Therefore, data leaks tend to occur with the introduction of every upgrade. In addition, data coding errors are a huge limitation and are responsible for many data losses. Also, data loss occurs due to the interference of cyber invaders. Due to their low cybersecurity budgets, approximately 43% of online attacks have been directed at small businesses. About 14% of small businesses are hacked yearly, and the number continues to increase. In every incident where a breach occurs, critical data is lost. Multiple interconnectivity that is characteristic of the World Wide Web limits the ability of users and administrators to eliminate errors entirely and keep data safe.
Another limitation to the loss of critical data is the lack of cybersecurity talent. The cybersecurity discipline is growing, but universities and colleges are not training enough technology majors to fulfill the market demand. Cybersecurity experts stated that there are only 2.8 million cybersecurity professionals in the workforce, and the job market still needs 4.07 million cybersecurity experts to satisfy market demands. In addition, the interaction of people and culture on the global platform induces errors.
The operations of cyberspace seem to be too big and complicated for effective cybersecurity systems. It is impossible to protect an open source or space fully. Most users consider their passwords to be private and known only to them. However, passwords are stored on organizations’ servers, and the technology managers generally have full access to users’ passwords. Therefore, passwords are limited in their ability to protect users and prevent data loss. Data loss appears to be inevitable because of the intricacies of online activities, social network interactions, nominal online transactions, and commercial transactions.
Chapter Summary
The advancement of global technology has provided users with tremendous advantages. Despite the enormous benefits, internet technology poses serious threats to users regarding privacy invasions and data compromises. In the past 50 years, businesses have transformed data processing from traditional business methods to electronic machine processing and digital data storage. The evolution of technology has proven to be highly beneficial and helpful to modern society. Indeed, technology promotes seamless transactions and efficiency in personal and business operations. It is not unusual for a system to produce benefits and costs. The internet, while helping modern society to run smoother, also has some risks. The primary risk associated with internet technology is data breach and identity theft by cybercriminals. Cybercrimes occur in many ways, as we have discussed in the chapter. As previously mentioned, phishing and malware are some of the prominent tools of cybercriminals. It is imperative to be proactive in matters of protection rather than to be reactive. In many cases, when you wait to react, it is impossible to restore your data to its original form. Mitigating risks will promote increased productivity, reduce delays, and minimize costs.
There are many measures that small and large organizations can take to reduce the growth of cyberattacks. These measures include documenting risks and formulating strategic plans to mitigate all hazards. In addition, increase investing in cybersecurity technology to safeguard your information assets. Cybersecurity is vital for national governments as it is essential to protect critical infrastructure. In 2019, President Trump sought to increase the cybersecurity budget by 11% over
