# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2015 - Cybersecurity threats can be managed effectively if users know that protecting their sensitive data involves personal data care; that is, users should handle their data with the care that they handle other valuable assets.
Mobile and digital interactions have faced massive attacks, primarily due to the ready availability of mobile devices. Thus, a continuous increase in mobile attacks is driven by the spread of smart devices, particularly smartphones. Smartphones may be an easy target due to their relatively permanent connection to internet sources. The constant connection to social media networks with little or no downtime makes smartphones vulnerable. Smartphones, in many ways, are used as wallets. Smartphones now contain bank cards, credit cards, and numerous personal as well as sensitive information that make them highly valuable targets. Shoppers are using their smartphones to purchase their items in lieu of their bank and/or credit cards. The emergence of mobile technology that allows smartphones banking and purchasing capabilities provides super conveniences for users. Yet, it has proven problematic because losing your phone could put you at risk of identity theft. Users must be aware that every transaction leaves a digital footprint, which concerns many users about personal privacy.
One of the dangers of identity theft is that it can go undetected for a long time. Many victims did not know that their identities were stolen until they applied for credit … and got rejected. Customers may not realize they are victimized until their banks contact them about possible fraudulent charges. In some cases of identity theft, the individual was unaware of the theft until a collection agency contacted them. Many internet users face identity theft due to negligence. Sometimes, individuals fail to act responsibly by securing their surroundings when using their important information.
In today’s cyberspace environment, organizations are faced with unparallel cyberthreats. Recently, the number of cyberattacks on corporate information assets has created an alarm among a growing number of nervous and apprehensive customers. Many organizations have launched aggressive cyber training and development programs to improve and secure their customers’ information. Employees handling customers’ sensitive information are trained in customer data privacy protection and given techniques to handle customers’ valuable information. Employees should follow strict protocols, so they do not unknowingly give access to unauthorized users. A small access in any organization’s computer network may extend access to the entire network system.
Cybersecurity experts warn of new cybertheft threats targeting homes with smart appliances as household users expand. Houses have become a rich data source as more families acquire smart appliances. Also, identity thieves target family games through game software vulnerabilities and multistep malware devices. Identity thieves target lower-profile users such as home-user networks due to their relaxed sense of cybersecurity. Home users should be mindful of helpful software, such as Adobe Acrobat Reader and Macromedia Flash. Hackers often use this software to exploit unsuspecting users in the comfort of their homes. Many home users use this software regularly and are not aware of updates required to plug software security holes. Also, cybercriminals will send out ads that look more like legitimate organizations to entrap home users who may be looking for sales and discounts. Additionally, many home-based networks are used by retirees and older users who may not be cybersecurity savvy, thus, allowing for possible identity theft.
Identity Theft
Security Relevance Score: 20
Word Count: 5729
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Cybersecurity threats can be managed effectively if users know that protecting their sensitive data involves personal data care; that is, users should handle their data with the care that they handle other valuable assets.
Mobile and digital interactions have faced massive attacks, primarily due to the ready availability of mobile devices. Thus, a continuous increase in mobile attacks is driven by the spread of smart devices, particularly smartphones. Smartphones may be an easy target due to their relatively permanent connection to internet sources. The constant connection to social media networks with little or no downtime makes smartphones vulnerable. Smartphones, in many ways, are used as wallets. Smartphones now contain bank cards, credit cards, and numerous personal as well as sensitive information that make them highly valuable targets. Shoppers are using their smartphones to purchase their items in lieu of their bank and/or credit cards. The emergence of mobile technology that allows smartphones banking and purchasing capabilities provides super conveniences for users. Yet, it has proven problematic because losing your phone could put you at risk of identity theft. Users must be aware that every transaction leaves a digital footprint, which concerns many users about personal privacy.
One of the dangers of identity theft is that it can go undetected for a long time. Many victims did not know that their identities were stolen until they applied for credit … and got rejected. Customers may not realize they are victimized until their banks contact them about possible fraudulent charges. In some cases of identity theft, the individual was unaware of the theft until a collection agency contacted them. Many internet users face identity theft due to negligence. Sometimes, individuals fail to act responsibly by securing their surroundings when using their important information.
In today’s cyberspace environment, organizations are faced with unparallel cyberthreats. Recently, the number of cyberattacks on corporate information assets has created an alarm among a growing number of nervous and apprehensive customers. Many organizations have launched aggressive cyber training and development programs to improve and secure their customers’ information. Employees handling customers’ sensitive information are trained in customer data privacy protection and given techniques to handle customers’ valuable information. Employees should follow strict protocols, so they do not unknowingly give access to unauthorized users. A small access in any organization’s computer network may extend access to the entire network system.
Cybersecurity experts warn of new cybertheft threats targeting homes with smart appliances as household users expand. Houses have become a rich data source as more families acquire smart appliances. Also, identity thieves target family games through game software vulnerabilities and multistep malware devices. Identity thieves target lower-profile users such as home-user networks due to their relaxed sense of cybersecurity. Home users should be mindful of helpful software, such as Adobe Acrobat Reader and Macromedia Flash. Hackers often use this software to exploit unsuspecting users in the comfort of their homes. Many home users use this software regularly and are not aware of updates required to plug software security holes. Also, cybercriminals will send out ads that look more like legitimate organizations to entrap home users who may be looking for sales and discounts. Additionally, many home-based networks are used by retirees and older users who may not be cybersecurity savvy, thus, allowing for possible identity theft.
Identity Theft


Cybersecurity is the protection of cyberspace. It includes the protection of electronic information, digital, mobile, and telecommunications. Cybersecurity is designed to support cyberspace activities from unlawful online abusers. In addition, cybersecurity is intended to secure cyberspace users as they transact their business in virtual space. Cyberspace is intertwined with physical space; hence, any issue occurring in cyberspace also impacts physical space. For instance, if a cyberuser’s identity is stolen in cyberspace, the user will have to fix that problem through various physical spaces, like banks, credit card companies, and government agencies.
Cybersecurity threats are among some of the most dangerous threats to US national security. The intelligence community has seen a constantly evolving technological threat that needs global government collaboration and intervention. If cybersecurity is ignored and the necessary mechanisms for protection are not in place, there could be enormous financial and emotional costs in the future. In addition, businesses worldwide are prone to having their confidential information leaked through the supply chains and hacked by identity thieves. The advanced training of cybersecurity technologists is the strongest defense against hackers constantly seeking to breach users’ information in cyberspace.
Cybersecurity is a high-tech, robust, dynamic electronic system, unlike traditional security methods. Careless handling of Social Security information, inadequate hardware, and subpar software technologies have compromised cybersecurity. Cybertheft threatens essential systems like the supply chain and national infrastructure. Terrorists also use cybertheft to access and endanger national security. Cybersecurity administrators must constantly improve and update their security software to ensure that the public is safe in cyberspace.
Cybersecurity managers have developed cybersecurity strategies by creating multilevel security systems to avoid cyberattacks. Organizations that implement multilevel cybersecurity strategies can protect the safety of their customer information. Hackers are also employing advanced and complex invasion software; therefore, cybersecurity specialists are required to have the aptitude for new skills and the capabilities to produce antivirus software updates to counter cybersecurity threats on network operating systems. Comprehensive management and maintenance of technological systems may significantly advance the protection and safety of cybersecurity.
Computer hackers have become pervasive and determined to develop new tactics to access the computer and mobile networks. In light of the aggressive approach of internet hackers, organizations and individual internet users should continue to revise and implement new counterstrategies to safeguard their information assets. Rigid security conventions that evaluate strategy formulation in terms of multilevel security systems should consider data safety as a fundamental part of their organization’s mission. Furthermore, organizations storing large data files with customers’ sensitive information should be vigilant with their cybernetwork protection, given their custodian responsibility.
Hackers are constantly producing new techniques that capture sensitive data that are sold in the unofficial market to corrupt organizations seeking to gain competitive advantages over their competitors through illegitimate means. Hackers’ in-depth knowledge and skill are so advanced that they even evade some cybersecurity experts. In addition, hackers can manipulate software and networks’ flaws that leverage their positions. Therefore, corporate leaders should establish strategic steps to prevent online nuisances such as identity theft, blackmail, fraud, and extortion by cybercriminals. Cyber-experts examined four crucial security management dimensions that would vastly strengthen organizations’ cybersecurity as follows: (1) Facility and cargo management, (2) Accident prevention and processing, (3) Information management, and (4) Partner relationships.
Facility and cargo are associated with high risk by the sheer volume of paperwork required. Accident prevention regarding data processing is utterly critical. Data processing managers must conduct all checks and balances to ensure that data is processed as necessary to avoid accidental data mix-ups. Identity theft occurs when sensitive information is sent to unintended users. It must be emphasized that efficient information management contributes to information safety. Modern online activities have forged business relations and alliances that require shared online connections and enterprise resources. The inherent risk may be involved when businesses engage in partnerships where sharing of network resources is essential for effective business processes.
The globalization of the world’s economies has enabled cybercriminals from countries like Iraq to engage in unofficial business dealings with firms in Canada, where they can send illegal goods into Canada undetected and without prosecution. American Gas Association (AGA) has adopted the AGA Commitment to Cyber and Physical Security to tighten security. This initiative shows that the organization is willing to protect its 2.5 million miles of pipelines across all 50 states from physical and cyberattacks. Any attack, whether the attack is physical or cyber related, could damage the infrastructure, involve surmountable repair costs, and disrupt operations. Therefore, taking the proper actions to protect to secure the organization’s assets is prudent stewardship.
Cybersecurity is crucial in determining whether some software will survive in today’s cybersecurity environment. Investments are at grave risk if organizations do not install and manage advanced security systems to counteract cybercriminals. Unethical business individuals work with hackers to sabotage their competitors for illegal gains. It is imperative that business leaders evaluate their cybersecurity resources and hire appropriate computer security specialists to maintain consistency with data safety. The data custodian responsibility of organizations should be taken seriously. Therefore, national regulations should be enacted to hold organizations accountable when they carelessly handle data management and inefficiency, which leads to the exposure of customers’ sensitive information.
Theoretical Perspective

Design of safety protocol and services: Target Corporation USA was hacked in 2013, which resulted in a massive data breach. Hackers gained access to the company’s gateway server by accessing credentials stolen from third-party vendors. Hackers used the stolen access credentials to install their malware in Target’s payment systems, which enabled the hackers to steal customers’ information. Third-party vendors led to the compromising of Target’s internal network. Hence, cybercriminals succeeded in infiltrating the payment system through an executable file disguised as a legitimate document attachment by a web application. Target could have minimized the damage if the company’s cybersecurity team had been more vigilant. Despite several warnings about the breach, Target disregarded the alerts, which led to the unprecedented data breach. The multistate breach cost the company $18.5 million in fines and a total overall cost of $202 million. The company hired Bob DeRoddes, an expert security advisor, to fix Target’s data breach. He previously worked with the US Department of Homeland Security, the US Secretary of Defense, and multinational organizations. DeRoddes implemented several techniques and protocols, enhanced and monitored login credentials, installed a new POS system, enhanced firewalls, limited vendor access, and required two-factor authentication for all Target employees and contractors.
Admittedly, the internet is one of the key elements of business transactions for the future; therefore, companies should implement and develop strategies to prevent numerous cybercrimes. One of the ways that companies could reduce cybertheft is to reduce the collection and storage of customers’ sensitive data. Also, organizations could set a time limit to destroy customers’ unused data stored in their databases. Keeping unused customer data for extended periods could compromise the safety of the data.
Managing Information Quality
More than 439 million new malwares were discovered in 2015, 36% higher than the previous year. Cybercriminals are not only focusing on retailers and online bankers but also targeting the local infrastructure of banks to gain entry to higher-valued information assets. In response to the rapid escalation in cyberthreats in 2010, programmer Chris Lattner, in collaboration with other programmers, established the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT). SWIFT sets standards for interbank messaging networks, and all their members must comply with the new cybersecurity standards. In addition, banks’ cybersecurity administrators have introduced the Customer Security Program (CSP) to support customers in reinforcing the security of their SWIFT-related infrastructure. The CSP addresses several key security areas, including the security and protection of customers’ local environments, counterparty relationships, and the role of the financial community in counteracting cyberattacks.
Managing the Cybersecurity Process
Aggressive efforts to curb cybercrimes sometimes fail and lead to large-scale cyberbreaches. For example, the SWIFT security network initiative was designed to protect banks’ data systems; however, cybercriminals could infiltrate the SWIFT network and stole $101 million from Bangladesh’s Central Bank and $12 million from Ecuador’s Banco del Austro, respectively. In addition, cybercriminals used the SWIFT security network to gather information from local banks’ systems. They used the credentials to act as legitimate customers to access large financial assets. To prevent future occurrences, SWIFT has developed a comprehensive customer security control framework that acts as the core defense system of its network. The framework consists of a multilayer security control system that provides more resilient cybersecurity to its affiliates.
Human Resources and the Identity Theft Factors
JPMorgan Chase had a significant data breach in 2014 despite having a substantial cybersecurity budget of $250 million per year. Hackers obtained administrator access to several of the bank’s servers using phishing techniques through a stolen third-party vendor’s credentials. As a result, information regarding account holders’ names, phone numbers, email, and physical addresses were exfiltrated. The data breach affected 76 million households and 7 million small businesses. To secure customers’ data, Chase’s cybersecurity administrators replaced most of its IT infrastructure and fired the chief information security officer due to his ineffective performance with government officials and misdirecting the investigation.
Cybersecurity Maintenance Against Identity Theft
Cybersecurity experts maintain that as the risk of cyberattacks increases, the banking sector should use newly designed protocols to identify strengths and weaknesses in its security network infrastructure and conduct regular security analyses. In April 2014, JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon reported that even though the company would spend $250 million and assign more than 1,000 technologically trained employees to address cybersecurity issues, the banks’ efforts may not be sufficient to counteract the relentless efforts of cybercriminals. However, the bank will endeavor to follow five recommendations to prevent future cyberattacks. (1) Understand how cyberattack occurs. (2) Identify the effects of cyberattacks on financial institutions. (3) Discuss the legal liabilities of financial institutions following a cyberattack. (4) Evaluate regulatory efforts to increase cybersecurity requirements. (5) Prevent cyberattacks by suggesting solutions that financial institutions may use to protect against cyberattacks.
Identity Theft Reviewed
In this text, we have established that identity theft is not a new phenomenon. Identity theft began before medieval times and has been changing in many sophisticated forms over the past 200 years, especially during the 1800s. In the early 1800s, criminals would kill people, steal their identities, and use the victims’ identities to break laws. In addition, identities were stolen and used to register illegal voters in general elections in many countries. In the early 1900s, teenagers and young adults ineligible to make certain purchases would create fake IDs and use them to purchase tobacco and alcohol beverages.
The emergence of credit cards and increased commercial transactions brought a new spate of identity thefts. New forms of identity theft include tax fraud, medical fraud, counterfeit money, and public document falsification. Cybercriminals have developed new identity theft tools due to the advancement of modern technology. In 2000, online interactions escalated and created large internet search companies such as Google and Yahoo in the US. The sign-up policy of these organizations required users to provide sensitive information related to their identities. Without being aware of any possible risks, users provided critical information which exposed them to identity thefts.
Identity thefts have increased exponentially since the introduction of social media platforms. The internet has received a spate of new users enticed by social media who have not taken any precautions to guard their identities. As a result, identity thieves have used stolen identities to engage in illegal schemes such as scamming people to donate money for charitable purposes and making unauthorized purchases.
Experts continue to emphasize that internet users ensure that they use strong and unique passwords for their online accounts. Internet users are advised not to display personal or financial documents on social media and avoid location sharing and geo-tagging. Additionally, they should set up a secondary confirmation for login and not let any website keep credit card information. Internet users should only use personal security services from trusted sources. Finally, professional software companies should ensure that they fix every programming error and quickly patch every vulnerability in their programs before users’ systems are compromised.
The US government approved the creation of a cyber command under the Obama administration to protect the government’s networks against cyberattacks. Protections include but are not limited to infiltration into espionage agencies, digital theft of confidential data, and election meddling. The commission gave a detailed plan to develop a new set of cyber education for future generations. The plan includes traditional cybersecurity education, the development of new skills, and degree programs for future internet threats. The initiative encouraged universities to enroll students in the new degree programs designed to combat cybersecurity.
The cyber-expert community reiterated that cybersecurity education would give students and practitioners practical hands-on training and build a talent pool of cybersecurity professionals for federal and state-level cybersecurity positions. Furthermore, protecting US property from cybercriminals is one of the primary objectives of the command initiative. The cybersecurity command is an offensive project that will form a defense against hackers and their sponsors. This unit will develop a comprehensive strategy against potential cybercriminals based on combined data collection, data analysis, and execute the attack and secure confidential data. Also, cybersecurity experts insisted that further studies are needed to ascertain the efficacy of the approach. The initiative must be established with a dynamic system adaptable to change and can be safely implemented without compromising national secrets.
The banking sector is a lucrative target for cyberfraudsters because of its vast financial data resources. Academic cybersecurity researchers analyzed financial institutions’ security challenges and found severe potential security threats. The cybersecurity administrators gave expert tips on preventing those threats from materializing based on the research findings. The tips may be implemented for general online users as well as financial institutions. Commercial banking is also at risk, like financial institutions such as Clients Enterprise and banks for private, corporate, insurance, investments, and retail banking. Therefore, there is a gradual departure from traditional banking to online banking. However, more customers mean more responsibility to protect their confidential information. Standard security software and hardware are built on known threats; therefore, users must take vigilant steps to safeguard their information assets.
Cybercriminals are rapidly inventing new ways to steal users’ identities and make millions of dollars while endangering the public. To avoid cybervictimization, users are advised to follow multiple layers of security protocols. For example, using big data applications for proper authentication of banking operations may safeguard against identity theft. Furthermore, online network infrastructures should be updated regularly so that the hardware can support the software efficiently. Additionally, staff should be educated about known threat signs, and companies should train their employees to detect signs and irregular activities when performing their duties.
Cloud data management is crucial in light of cybercriminal threats. Cloud management is critical for personal, local, national, and international protection. Cloud data hosting needs proper monitoring, maintenance, and security administration. In the 1990s, when the internet was introduced, it gained popularity quickly due to its time efficiency and reliability. Although the internet is enormously beneficial, it has led to many threats to internet users, such as identity theft, confidential information theft, and the scheming of money from the general public and government agencies.
Cloud storage has become essential because of its reliability. Personal data can be stored on local devices, but if the physical device gets lost or damaged, all the data might be destroyed. Therefore, cloud data storage and management became a central storage facility for small and large data storage. Cloud storage offers lifetime storage and availability to users on a real-time basis. Furthermore, cloud data is a prime target for cybercriminals because of its global storage capacity. If cybercriminals could access the cloud storage network, they would use the opportunity to exploit users’ data illegally. Thus, cloud data should be protected from potential threats. Cybersecurity management professionals suggested some ideas on how to prevent cyberattacks on cloud storage systems. They strongly recommended that administrators maintain a scheduled update on their networks and upgrade their internet protocols regularly to avoid potential leaks and compromises.
Security software and hardware should always be up to date. It is essential to understand that the characteristics of emerging advanced modern technologies, such as cloud computing as a storage facility for individuals’ and organizations’ entire information network systems, are relatively new. Experts emphasized that implementing secured internet lines and virtual firewalls to prevent possible cyberattacks from malicious entities is crucial.
Internet users can be victimized by identity theft in the cyberworld in many ways. Public Wi-Fi, hotspots, phishing, juice jacking, and SMS-Phishing are possible ways. These are some of the common traps that may catch users unaware. Another tactic used by internet scammers is known as shoulder surfing. It occurs when internet scammers look over a user’s shoulder at an ATM and memorize the user’s card number with the pin. Another method cybercriminals use is pretexting, where the criminal uses a person’s minimal information, such as the last name, to get more information about the person.
It is well known now that many cybercriminals use the popular phishing method to access sensitive identity information and seek ransom from big data companies. Cybercriminals generally send an email to targeted users with one or more hyperlinks that may resemble a trusted source. The email is used as bait, and anyone who clicks on the link will be exposed to the hacker. Therefore, Internet users should only use power outlets to charge their phones or electronic devices. In addition, users should be vigilant while using kiosk machines and use different unique passwords for each account to maintain high-level data security.
Identity Theft Reviewed
Cyberattacks have become commonplace for companies of all sizes and individuals; yet, many users are not fully aware of the nature and danger of cybercrimes. The lack of knowledge causes many users to be vulnerable and pay little or no attention to their surroundings as they share their sensitive information. Users should be aware that every transaction leaves a digital footprint, raising many users’ concerns regarding privacy. Many users are afraid to use their credit cards for online transactions because many business organizations save users’ credit card payment information on their systems, which may expose users to cybertheft. Identity Theft Clearinghouse (ITC), an organization that assists attorneys of identity theft victims, has data representing only those victims who reported their age. According to ITC, individuals aged 30–39 and 18–29 consistently reported a high increase in identity theft incidents. These ages are mostly affected because that demographic tends to have valuable information. For example, cybersecurity crime experts said that 39% to 50% of victims’ data was used to acquire new driver’s licenses.
Internet users should be aware of the severe danger of online threats. Users who spend an inordinate amount of time, such as gamers and social network users, are a high-risk source for identity theft. Online activities requiring users to use their credit cards or personal information often increase the chance of data breaches. Users should ensure that the websites they are using are secure and authentic before sharing their personal information on the website.
Identity Theft Analytics
Cybersecurity academic researchers expressed that the current cybersecurity environment is complex because it is a multiuser platform. Digital data vulnerability has increased with the global expansion in usage. Cybersecurity environments involve many aspects of the web, such as cyberspace as a host, information within cyberspace, communication technology that supports cyberspace, and users’ interface within the World Wide Web. A weak cybersecurity system could result in the loss of critical operations information such as inventory information, financial information, manufacturing secrets, and strategic, long-term plans. Robust security to protect cyberspace depends on advanced technology and the efficiency of cybersecurity specialists who can set up a defense against sophisticated hackers who operate almost ghostly. Private and sensitive information has become a high-value commodity in the underground marketplace. Companies and governments should be willing to allocate cybersecurity budgets to meet identity thefts adequately. 
Online operations require companies to hire cybersecurity technicians, pay for advanced equipment, engage in ongoing training, and acquire new programs to protect customers’ information. Furthermore, organizations found that it is in their best interest to employ computer scientists with the skills to create new codes that may effectively protect confidential business information. Many data breaches in the past years were due to inadequate budgets and lack of knowledge of the severe danger of weak cybersecurity systems. Cybersecurity is costly in terms of time and money; however, it is crucial given the level at which vulnerable systems could impact users.
A survey by Rughinis and Rughinis (2014) in the European Union defined the three types of negative human factors within the cybersecurity environment. The researchers reported that (1) Lazy users with low awareness of cyberthreats were the weak links that exposed internet networks to high risk. (2) Economically rational users were seeking to cut costs while ignoring the implementation of multilayers of security that would provide adequate protection to their internet networks. (3) Social users who trusted their websites, believing that developers and owners would put in place all necessary security systems for users’ safety. Internet users who do not take the necessary steps to protect their sensitive information create opportunities for hackers to access and steal their valuable information.
The globalization of businesses and the utilization of third-party information systems that manage the outsourcing process have created vulnerabilities for many organizations’ cybersecurity systems. Researchers outlined four security management dimensions that users should consider. (1) Facility and cargo management: This area of potential vulnerability needs vigilant attention when processing users’ data. (2) Accident prevention: employees should be careful not to expose users’ data accidentally. (3) Processing information management: strict protocols must be followed to prevent negligent data exposure, given the high volume of data processing. (4) Partner relationships: many breaches have occurred due to third-party access arrangements; thus, policies should be definitive regarding partnership network collaborations. This changing and mass integration of the global marketplace that involves commercial activities such as manufacturing and selling utilizing international logistics systems and transport require proper cybersecurity systems. Global business interactions have great potential for confidential information to be compromised. Thus, the supply chain requires honest partners and robust security to safeguard users’ data. Whereas globalization is progressive for trade, cybersecurity must be considered a major priority to protect global investments.
Modern technology has enabled hackers to function on multiple levels. Therefore, internet users and big data providers, in particular, should ensure various levels of security are installed to protect every aspect of cyberspace. Long-term cybersecurity strategies that outline cybersecurity goals and objectives for the future are of paramount importance. Well-developed plans to counter cyberthreats should be the highest on the list of agendas for multinational corporations. The magnitude of the cybersecurity challenges may require governments’ interventions to ensure appropriate funding and administration. Certified Security Solutions (CSS) are imperative. When CSS is implemented properly, employees can work in a secure environment without the fear of data exposure. Preventative solutions are made in advance to anticipate potential threats.
Research regarding human performance within cyberspace has been limited due to the lack of highly skilled employees and the low number of cyber-Dspecialists with access to advanced information. Trainees who are not given the tools needed to further their learning and development in cybersecurity may not acquire the skills necessary to protect their companies and make significant contributions to their organizations. As trainees gain new knowledge, they can collaborate within team settings and engage in specific tasks, using analytical thinking approaches to solve cyberthreats. By constantly adapting to evolving cyberspace, cybersecurity specialists should be flexible enough to adjust to new approaches and cybersecurity techniques.
Cybersecurity is a universal part of national defense systems; therefore, governments and corporations should collaborate to find unified solutions. Entities such as the Association of Government Accountants (AGA) utilize tactics from the TSA guidelines and the NIST frameworks. The TSA oversees many gas pipelines protected through their TSA Pipeline Security Guidelines. The comprehensive guidelines of the TSA make it difficult for cybercriminals to gain access. There are 2.5 million miles of natural gas pipelines throughout 50 United States. Therefore, the information infrastructure that manages this physical infrastructure requires keen cybersecurity management. Poorly managed and ineffective systems could result in irreversible damage from terrorism and malicious entities. Cyber administrators must be diligent when it relates to cybersecurity, especially when sharing valuable information or tactics.
Identity Theft Digitalized
The escalating attention to cybersecurity is due mainly to society’s growing reliance on digital systems to control governments’ and the private sector’s infrastructures. Unfortunately, the increasing availability of technology has contributed to increased cyberattacks. Cyber theft is highly digitized and embedded in the worldwide web. Efforts to enhance cybersecurity include requiring identity verification, reducing online anonymity, and sharing potential attack information with partners and users. The joint efforts of private and public users to counteract cybercrimes may help improve the safety of the internet for everyone. 
Women and children are prime targets of cybercriminals because of their social use of the internet, which generally spans long hours at a time. Everyone must be aware and engaged in strict protective measures that may prevents unwanted access to private and sensitive data. Cybersecurity awareness needs to be done with a diverse group, including women and children. The lack of women addressing cybersecurity issues that affected them has prevented the development of more concentrated efforts to educate and protect them. Cybercriminals have analyzed the behaviors of men and women and determined that women are a vulnerable population in cyberspace because of their shopping activities and other social transactions. Some studies showed that 79% of women are attacked online compared to 73% of men. Thus, the differences in cybersecurity behavior between men and women have led to the increased targeting of women. Cybersecurity administrators suggested that cybercrimes intensify among the vulnerable cyberspace population, including professional women who use the internet for webinars and marketing their personal endeavors.
Cybersecurity researchers posited that increasing women’s recruitment in cybersecurity management would increase cybersecurity awareness for women. Therefore, recruiters should use diverse selection panels and gender-blinded screening systems to collect and process résumés. Selecting résumés based on skill sets would increase women’s chances in cybersecurity management. Hiring and retaining women would create equity in the cybersecurity employment sector. Employers should track and enforce gender parity in evaluations, promotions, salaries, and benefits for all employees across the board. By using objective recruitment methods, women would have opportunities to be hired by their merits and not passed over based on gender biases.
The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act (CISA) seems to make it difficult to establish specific guidelines that would effectively improve cybersecurity. Experts contended that the Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act, lack pertinent oversight. Efforts to provide and receive information in real time in a secure form seem to face some challenges as the CISA does not have a provision that states that data collected will be reviewed and corrected. The lack of oversight indicates flaws in the process’s development and administration. It creates a gap for cybersecurity compromises, which may leave the users vulnerable to privacy risks and reduce the reliability of the enactment of CISA and its intended purpose.
Advanced technology and cybercriminal tactics have increased the difficulty of detecting cyberthefts. The reliance on financial institutions to provide safe technology has resulted in poor individual users’ personal cybersecurity protection. The risks taken by depending on public technology further increase potential data exposure because of the lack of updates or cybersecurity improvements in many public technology systems. Cybersecurity risks are evolving and becoming more complex. Therefore, efforts to minimize damage require prompt regulatory responses from governmental leaders. So far, the measures established to provide cybersecurity have not been able to sustain protection against hackers effectively.
As cyberattacks become more pervasive, governments, corporations, and individual users should engage in a unified effort to protect cyberspace and, in effect, protect their own information assets. The under-preparedness of many internet users has created lucrative opportunities for cybercriminals. The delivery of a well-targeted cyberattack can impact institutions and individuals around the globe. Implementing effective cybersecurity systems is urgent in light of the cost of a breach, financially and emotionally.
Cybersecurity Limitations

The newly emerged cyberworld has afforded us increased access to and usage of advanced technology. The shift from traditional to digital processes has created enormous ease and worrisome experiences for many organizations and individuals. The vulnerability and uncertainty of users’ cyberspace privacy are alarming. Cybersecurity experts have estimated that more than 50 million confidential or sensitive records are compromised yearly. Clearly, the urgency for cybersecurity measures should be handled seriously. Cybersecurity should address identity theft and internet threats through education and cyberthreat skill detection training. Congress designed the CISA to prevent the escalation of data breaches. The introduction of CISA was intended to allow private and public companies to share cybersecurity threat data with the Department of Homeland Security to create effective deterrents against cybersecurity threats.
The infiltration of governmental agencies is a highly potential risk. Russian operatives’ intervention in Trump’s 2016 election and the breach of key government agencies, including the US Treasury and Department of Commerce, is of grave security concern. In addition, the breach of millions of sensitive records has left many users vulnerable in their daily business operations because their private information is being used in illegal transactions. The Cybersecurity Information Security Act (CISA) is an act that former President Barack Obama put into place in 2015 under the Department of Homeland Security to improve cybersecurity through increased collaboration and information sharing. The intent was to increase cybersecurity protection and secure private, business, and personal information.
In the professional fields of science, technology, engineering, and math, there has been an increase in the number of women entering these professions. However, the number of women who achieve decision-making authority is low compared to men. The disparity in terms of male to female ratio within the tech industry is pretty broad, and thus, more women participants should be encouraged to participate. Diversity across general occupational sectors, including cybersecurity, provides rich experiences that may enhance cybersecurity protection. Getting internet users to engage in standard protection measures that may reduce the vulnerability of cyberattacks may require the participation of diverse users, including women and children.
The lack of women in the field of cybertechnology may be because of the early education and marketing by universities’ course advisors who assigned courses to male and female students in a designed career path. The creation of security measures may be amplified by women cybersecurity technologists. Although both females and males receive extensive computer science, information technology, and engineering training, women tend to choose their degrees in business, mathematics, and social sciences. An increase in the recruitment of women may bring more significant insights into the field of cybersecurity and advance protection measures.
California’s Silicon Valley employed more men than women. In 2018, Carta eShare analyzed approximately 6,000 companies, 180,000 employees, and 150,000 founders and reported that men owned 91% of employee and founder equity while women owned only 9%. In addition, the number of women holding directorship in Silicon Valley was approximately 28% in
