# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 000 - Therefore, it is imperative to use trained server engineers for cloud computing when using cloud storage.
Automated security solutions and tech support: Digital data are more secure now than in the past. This is due to the emergence of automated security solutions. Once the user purchases a data security system, the system will automatically be updated and renew itself if the subscription is paid. The percentage of organizations subscribed to security automation solutions has increased from 15% in 2019 to 21% in 2020. Automated security assures business owners and allows them to focus on strategic policies. Cybersecurity researchers alluded that automated security generated significant savings for many organizations. Some researchers estimate that organizations could save more than $3.58 million from data breach prevention.
Security Relevance Score: 11
Word Count: 663
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Therefore, it is imperative to use trained server engineers for cloud computing when using cloud storage.
Automated security solutions and tech support: Digital data are more secure now than in the past. This is due to the emergence of automated security solutions. Once the user purchases a data security system, the system will automatically be updated and renew itself if the subscription is paid. The percentage of organizations subscribed to security automation solutions has increased from 15% in 2019 to 21% in 2020. Automated security assures business owners and allows them to focus on strategic policies. Cybersecurity researchers alluded that automated security generated significant savings for many organizations. Some researchers estimate that organizations could save more than $3.58 million from data breach prevention.

Seven essential factors in maintaining effective cybersecurity and reducing the cost of cybersecurity exposure:

Conduct incident response testing
Engage in security continuity planning
Form a proactive incident response team
Invest in the use of AI technology platforms
Use multistep security systems
Enforce strict adherence to security protocols
Restrict user access to task-specific

Seven key factors that increase the cost of cybersecurity data breaches:

An online and remote workforce
Lost and stolen unprotected devices
Internet of things (IoT) and low-level security priority
Third-party vendors with weak access points
Malicious employees
Outdated cybersecurity systems
Low-proficiency cybersecurity administrators

Strategic Approach to Cybersecurity Exposure
Progressive cybersecurity development has enabled users to protect their information assets. Therefore, for every type of vulnerability within a cybersecurity system, a security option is ready for combative use. With regards to malware, the user can review programs and flag information downloads to prevent cybercriminal invasions. Also, users can avoid clicking on links that they do not know. Furthermore, users can acquire ad blockers and install antiviruses and strong firewalls. In the case of phishing, users can use multifactor authentication for visiting websites and accessing their private information. Emails are the number one communication method for businesses; hence, it is prudent to use email virus detection tools to protect email communications.
Conclusion 
When used within the established guidelines and implemented securely, cookies are essential components that enhance the users’ browsing experiences. Certainly, cookies generate unique user preferences and create user profiles that enable the users to work within familiar cyberspace. In addition, cookies provide access and use of the functionalities offered by the website. Notwithstanding, cookies have weaknesses, including compromising security and invasion of privacy. Cybersecurity researchers stress that cookies have many limitations, and the user’s pop-up blockers may deny access. However, proper management of cookies can enhance users’ search activities and provide marketable data for businesses. Cybersecurity helps protect the privacy of users’ computers and web-based networks. The risk of cybersecurity exposure increases with poorly monitored systems and careless user activity that opens opportunities for cyberattack tools such as malware, phishing, and denial of service. The cost associated with these types of cybersecurity exposures is affected by factors such as the users’ industry, company size, and the types of data the organizations handle. Well-structured incident response plans (IRP) can assist in risk assessment and prevention.
Exercise Questions:

List and discuss two limitations of cookies.
What are session cookies, and how may they impact users’ security?
What is the purpose of third-party cookies, and what are their advantages and disadvantages?
List and explain four ways that cookies may benefit users.
List two strategies that business leaders have implemented to combat cybercrimes.
List and explain two of the seven important factors to maintain adequate cybersecurity and reduce the cost of cybersecurity exposure.
List three of the seven key factors that increase the cost of cybersecurity data breaches.
What are the four major costs associated with cybersecurity exposure?
Digitalization of information is occurring on a real-time basis through how many mediums? Please list the medium and elaborate.
Some browsers do not have size limits. Please list and discuss them.









References 1
Abdallah, A., Maarof, M. & A. Zainal. (2016). Fraud detection system: A survey. Journal of Network and Computer Applications, 68, 90–
