# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 365 - MyHub is a cloud governance app that allows users to provide workspaces policy without technical experts. These applications can help administrators reduce operation costs and increase efficiency.
Digital security challenges are a major concern for users, especially when a new product enters the market. Through its enhanced content structure, Microsoft ensures that Teams is equipped with strong cybersecurity protection and data management capabilities.
Slack and Microsoft social business network collaboration productivity systems are widely used and adopted as critical communication tools. Slack and Microsoft Teams are the leading social business networks chat collaboration platforms. Indeed, these two organizations bring a new paradigm to the efficient functioning of the modern workplace. Notably, Slack is considered more user-friendly and accessible than Microsoft Teams because Slack’s app is easier to set up and manage. Conversely, Microsoft Teams is designed for larger businesses, and its setup is complex. Nevertheless, Microsoft Teams offers excellent integration with Office 365 applications. However, users looking for smooth integrations as a primary objective for team chat may prefer Slack because of its capability to integrate with a wide range of applications and technological tools.
The Slack social business network provides an extraordinary tool to help SMEs in their marketing endeavors. The Slack Technologies platform opens enormous opportunities for integrating digital marketing devices within the mobile digital applications realm. Thus, small- and medium-scale enterprises can use Slack’s ready-made applications to promote and advance their business offerings. The World Wide Web and the internet have created advanced marketing tools, such as digital marketing technologies with compatible applications that offer smooth interconnections and efficient delivery of marketing information. Undoubtedly, social media with vast interactive technologies have created digital marketing channels that transform how marketing information is communicated to customers. Indeed, digital marketing communication is disseminated on tablets, mobile phones, and through pop-ups on users’ work computers. In many ways, digital marketing is intrusive and pervasive; nevertheless, digital marketing is effective. Moreover, digital marketing has played a Signiant role on social network platforms by increasing brand recognition and fostering brand loyalty. The influence of social networks is far-reaching, given the diverseness and vastness of users’ memberships. Certainly, social networks offer unfettered access to new and potential customers and enrich loyal customers’ experience with new product offerings.
Social networks offer product exposure that would not happen due to the high cost of the television. Hence, expanding the market share for products that otherwise would remain relatively unknown. In addition, product exposure increases brand recognition, and brand recognition has the potential to increase brand loyalty, thus, increase profits. One of the reasons why online social networks are so influential is because of the emergence of apps. Apps allow users to have ready access on their mobile devices, increasing the number of hours users spend on social media. According to academic researchers, social network marketing is effective because users spend an inordinate amount of their time on social network platforms. Some researchers estimate that users may spend two to three hours daily on social networks. Therefore, social networks increase marketers’ opportunities to reach new customers and increase market shares.
Although social networks provide a free platform in some sense, marketing is not actually free, as marketers have spent time and money to craft and design content that will appeal to users. Building and maintaining a business profile may take many hours a week. Time is costly. In addition, effective marketing reach requires unique content that grabs users’ attention and encourages followers, views, and clinkers. Followers are desirable, and businesses need many followers to augment their social network sustainability.
In many cases, a social media marketing campaign has diminishing returns if it cannot generate positive leads. Notwithstanding some potential drawbacks of social network marketing, it remains the most cost-effective tool for nascent businesses. Interestingly, large companies are taking advantage of social media and reducing their marketing and advertising budgets. Social media provides marketing and sales features where businesses pay for marketing and advertising. This forum gives the marketer greater visibility by allowing the ad to run frequently and prominently to targeted audiences. The paying customers of social networks are given enhanced tools and run-time for maximum visibility. In addition, payers of social media platforms are generally issued banners and large pages to display their information and extended run-time for their videos with the standard restrictions that unpaid customers endure.
The US digital advertising practice has grown significantly over the past 10 years; mobile advertising has led to viewership. Today, mobile advertising accounts for over 70% of digital advertising and controls more than 50% of US advertising spending. Television advertising has been slowly declining as mobile advertising gradually becomes popular. Merchants are now advertising on social network platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter, which are available on mobile devices. Mobile advertising is beneficial to marketers and customers because it allows users to be exposed to marketing campaigns while on the move.
In addition, mobile advertising allows marketers to target particular demographics to maximize their return on investments. The strategy to target a specific demographic is designed to prevent the waste of resources and streamline resources to users likely to view the ad favorably. The generalization of advertising has the effect of hit-and-miss. Marketers have been moving away from that approach for 10 years and engaging in marketing specifics, focusing on a targeted population based on age, occupation, preference, and lifestyle. Targeted marketing is embedded with graphics and languages that are appealing and forceful.
The expansive and global membership of social media platforms provides the likelihood that a marketing campaign will reach its intended audience. The potential to reach audiences is favorable, given the diversity of tastes and preferences. The growth of the digital advertising industry may increase as technological innovation continues to expand. The new paradigm of shopping by viewing and selecting has become germane with the emergence of digital e-commerce.
The confidence in shopping on social networks has increased as the number of social web services improved. Congress has tried to address the privacy concerns that ward off users’ concerns. Social networks have become the driving force for interactions and collaboration in business and social settings. The escalation of global adoption of social media has led to the sharing of large volumes of users’ personal and sensitive information on the World Wide Web. The use of the World Wide Web and the various systems that changed traditional activities to digital activities necessitate using critical and authentic identifying information such as date of birth, Social Security numbers, financial, and health information.
The confluence of such rich and thick information has generated the interest of cybercriminals, thus, creating new threats to digital activities. Yet, despite the dangers, the ease and convenience of digital platforms continue to attract an increasing number of new users. The massive amounts of personal information shared over the seconds quickly fill cloud storage online and physical warehouses. Admittedly, the digital security challenge is becoming more and more challenging. Cybersecurity experts have continued to engage in deep technological research for solutions that may help protect the uncontained growth and flow of digital data and information. However, implementing digital security layers and multilayer systems has sometimes made the digital experience cumbersome and even inconvenient.
Furthermore, global governmental leaders and organizations have united to establish privacy laws that may mitigate trespassing to address digital security challenges. One of the international institutions involved in this undertaking is the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). These organizations’ efforts encourage and boost the confidence of weary digital users. The challenge with implementing global systems is getting users to interpret and follow the procedures and protocols required to make the system effective.
In some cases, there is confusion about approaches. For instance, some security protection organizations suggest that employees bring their own devices to work as that may improve employee job satisfaction and productivity. However, some security organizations indicate that employees’ devices may increase security risks and the costs of cybersecurity management. The merit of these arguments may require further examination. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, millions of workers worldwide have connected to their companies’ network systems via their personal devices, such as laptops, desktops, and tablets. The security assessment will be done, and the results will be known in the future.
COVID-19 and Digital Network Security Challenges
The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the global work paradigm and introduced working from home as the new workplace. No extraordinary cyber event has been reported since the emergence of the work-at-home transition. However, academic researchers have observed the following.
Security Relevance Score: 25
Word Count: 8121
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

MyHub is a cloud governance app that allows users to provide workspaces policy without technical experts. These applications can help administrators reduce operation costs and increase efficiency.
Digital security challenges are a major concern for users, especially when a new product enters the market. Through its enhanced content structure, Microsoft ensures that Teams is equipped with strong cybersecurity protection and data management capabilities.
Slack and Microsoft social business network collaboration productivity systems are widely used and adopted as critical communication tools. Slack and Microsoft Teams are the leading social business networks chat collaboration platforms. Indeed, these two organizations bring a new paradigm to the efficient functioning of the modern workplace. Notably, Slack is considered more user-friendly and accessible than Microsoft Teams because Slack’s app is easier to set up and manage. Conversely, Microsoft Teams is designed for larger businesses, and its setup is complex. Nevertheless, Microsoft Teams offers excellent integration with Office 365 applications. However, users looking for smooth integrations as a primary objective for team chat may prefer Slack because of its capability to integrate with a wide range of applications and technological tools.
The Slack social business network provides an extraordinary tool to help SMEs in their marketing endeavors. The Slack Technologies platform opens enormous opportunities for integrating digital marketing devices within the mobile digital applications realm. Thus, small- and medium-scale enterprises can use Slack’s ready-made applications to promote and advance their business offerings. The World Wide Web and the internet have created advanced marketing tools, such as digital marketing technologies with compatible applications that offer smooth interconnections and efficient delivery of marketing information. Undoubtedly, social media with vast interactive technologies have created digital marketing channels that transform how marketing information is communicated to customers. Indeed, digital marketing communication is disseminated on tablets, mobile phones, and through pop-ups on users’ work computers. In many ways, digital marketing is intrusive and pervasive; nevertheless, digital marketing is effective. Moreover, digital marketing has played a Signiant role on social network platforms by increasing brand recognition and fostering brand loyalty. The influence of social networks is far-reaching, given the diverseness and vastness of users’ memberships. Certainly, social networks offer unfettered access to new and potential customers and enrich loyal customers’ experience with new product offerings.
Social networks offer product exposure that would not happen due to the high cost of the television. Hence, expanding the market share for products that otherwise would remain relatively unknown. In addition, product exposure increases brand recognition, and brand recognition has the potential to increase brand loyalty, thus, increase profits. One of the reasons why online social networks are so influential is because of the emergence of apps. Apps allow users to have ready access on their mobile devices, increasing the number of hours users spend on social media. According to academic researchers, social network marketing is effective because users spend an inordinate amount of their time on social network platforms. Some researchers estimate that users may spend two to three hours daily on social networks. Therefore, social networks increase marketers’ opportunities to reach new customers and increase market shares.
Although social networks provide a free platform in some sense, marketing is not actually free, as marketers have spent time and money to craft and design content that will appeal to users. Building and maintaining a business profile may take many hours a week. Time is costly. In addition, effective marketing reach requires unique content that grabs users’ attention and encourages followers, views, and clinkers. Followers are desirable, and businesses need many followers to augment their social network sustainability.
In many cases, a social media marketing campaign has diminishing returns if it cannot generate positive leads. Notwithstanding some potential drawbacks of social network marketing, it remains the most cost-effective tool for nascent businesses. Interestingly, large companies are taking advantage of social media and reducing their marketing and advertising budgets. Social media provides marketing and sales features where businesses pay for marketing and advertising. This forum gives the marketer greater visibility by allowing the ad to run frequently and prominently to targeted audiences. The paying customers of social networks are given enhanced tools and run-time for maximum visibility. In addition, payers of social media platforms are generally issued banners and large pages to display their information and extended run-time for their videos with the standard restrictions that unpaid customers endure.
The US digital advertising practice has grown significantly over the past 10 years; mobile advertising has led to viewership. Today, mobile advertising accounts for over 70% of digital advertising and controls more than 50% of US advertising spending. Television advertising has been slowly declining as mobile advertising gradually becomes popular. Merchants are now advertising on social network platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter, which are available on mobile devices. Mobile advertising is beneficial to marketers and customers because it allows users to be exposed to marketing campaigns while on the move.
In addition, mobile advertising allows marketers to target particular demographics to maximize their return on investments. The strategy to target a specific demographic is designed to prevent the waste of resources and streamline resources to users likely to view the ad favorably. The generalization of advertising has the effect of hit-and-miss. Marketers have been moving away from that approach for 10 years and engaging in marketing specifics, focusing on a targeted population based on age, occupation, preference, and lifestyle. Targeted marketing is embedded with graphics and languages that are appealing and forceful.
The expansive and global membership of social media platforms provides the likelihood that a marketing campaign will reach its intended audience. The potential to reach audiences is favorable, given the diversity of tastes and preferences. The growth of the digital advertising industry may increase as technological innovation continues to expand. The new paradigm of shopping by viewing and selecting has become germane with the emergence of digital e-commerce.
The confidence in shopping on social networks has increased as the number of social web services improved. Congress has tried to address the privacy concerns that ward off users’ concerns. Social networks have become the driving force for interactions and collaboration in business and social settings. The escalation of global adoption of social media has led to the sharing of large volumes of users’ personal and sensitive information on the World Wide Web. The use of the World Wide Web and the various systems that changed traditional activities to digital activities necessitate using critical and authentic identifying information such as date of birth, Social Security numbers, financial, and health information.
The confluence of such rich and thick information has generated the interest of cybercriminals, thus, creating new threats to digital activities. Yet, despite the dangers, the ease and convenience of digital platforms continue to attract an increasing number of new users. The massive amounts of personal information shared over the seconds quickly fill cloud storage online and physical warehouses. Admittedly, the digital security challenge is becoming more and more challenging. Cybersecurity experts have continued to engage in deep technological research for solutions that may help protect the uncontained growth and flow of digital data and information. However, implementing digital security layers and multilayer systems has sometimes made the digital experience cumbersome and even inconvenient.
Furthermore, global governmental leaders and organizations have united to establish privacy laws that may mitigate trespassing to address digital security challenges. One of the international institutions involved in this undertaking is the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). These organizations’ efforts encourage and boost the confidence of weary digital users. The challenge with implementing global systems is getting users to interpret and follow the procedures and protocols required to make the system effective.
In some cases, there is confusion about approaches. For instance, some security protection organizations suggest that employees bring their own devices to work as that may improve employee job satisfaction and productivity. However, some security organizations indicate that employees’ devices may increase security risks and the costs of cybersecurity management. The merit of these arguments may require further examination. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, millions of workers worldwide have connected to their companies’ network systems via their personal devices, such as laptops, desktops, and tablets. The security assessment will be done, and the results will be known in the future.
COVID-19 and Digital Network Security Challenges
The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the global work paradigm and introduced working from home as the new workplace. No extraordinary cyber event has been reported since the emergence of the work-at-home transition. However, academic researchers have observed the following.

Employees connected to their organizations’ network daily work efficiently.
Workers show commitment to completing their job assignments on time.
Collaboration among workers is occurring seamlessly.
Productivity has increased, and companies are meeting their targets.
Organizations are saving money in terms of utilities and real estate space costs.
Workers are saving time on commuting and traveling costs.
There are no reported incidents of data breaches or increased cyberthreats because of online work activities.

Phishing attacks targeting enterprise mobile devices increased during the first quarter of 2020 due to the rise in the remote workforce driven by the COVID-19 pandemic. However, there has been no real success to report. Phishing is a cybercriminal tool that is designed to trick unsuspecting users. One reason phishing is ineffective is that employers have educated employees about these potential threats. Workers’ awareness has resulted in the reduction of phishing effectiveness. Furthermore, workers use the education given to them to protect their companies’ networks as well as their own private networks and devices. Hence, the phishing strategy has lost most of its usefulness.
Online workers know they should not open an email without first making a phone call to their coworkers or supervisors. Therefore, email phishing traps are not likely to impact the workers. Further, if a worker attempts to open a phishing email, security blockers will prevent the device from opening it and, in some cases, shut down the device. If a device is shut down, it cannot re-access its network system until the company’s network security team tests it. With the introduction of cybersecurity sensors, the use of online activities have become much safer.
Organizations have implemented login protection mechanisms to protect online workers that prevent unauthorized users from logging in through hijacked and duplicate accounts. To establish this type of security, organizations have implemented the two-factor authentication security system that requires users to use both passwords and verification codes to access their profiles on their companies’ networks. This vesication process is also used for many websites and web services, including Amazon, Dropbox, Google, and Microsoft. In addition, social networks such as Twitter forces users to use Security Management System (SMS). Users who constantly use SMS are likely to avoid cyberattacks. Financial institutions and several online social network organizations have implemented additional internal cybersecurity protection mechanisms to defend against spammers and unsuspecting threats. For instance, the Facebook immune system generates signals for users when there is a potential threat to users’ accounts.
Technological Impact on Social Networks and Digital Security Challenges 
The proliferation of digital technology has become pervasive in modern business operations. The increased demand for convenience and the emergence of amazing innovative technologies have created digital dependence. The digitalization of things is one of the motivating factors for the popularity of social networks. As technology evolved, new and innovative processes became more reliant on digital communications to meet the changing processes of things.
Digital communication within the digital communication channel includes emails, phone calls, videoconferencing, and instant messaging. Indeed, digital communication has contributed largely to sophisticated designs of social network platforms.
Many businesses are struggling to keep up with the fast pace of digital technological changes. Many companies are coping with rapid technological change by using market research to determine if these changes are necessary for productivity. However, in many cases, the difference in some technologies has no relevant impact on some businesses. Therefore, the shift in newness may not be economically viable.
Cloud computing, created by IBM, is one of the most innovative and productive-driven technologies. Cloud computing enables organizations and individuals to access their data anytime and anywhere where there is internet connectivity, whether the internet connectivity is cable or wireless. Furthermore, the creation and application of the cloud are well integrated with business processes, so support is a seamless operation. Thus, the use of cloud computing increases productivity by saving time.
Many big organizations have digitalized their operations. One such example is PCL Construction Company. PLC Construction has transitioned to digital platforms for greater support for employees and vendors. The transition is designed to increase productivity. PCL found that digitalizing its processes helps the company make work tasks easier for its 4,400 employees. By implementing the digital platform, PCL Construction utilizes cloud technology provided by Microsoft’s Azure Cloud, which allows PLC Construction to back up and store pertinent data across departments and worksites.
The accessibility and the capability to share information among employees led to improved communication and timely delivery of projects. Digital communication, by far, enhances businesses’ processes when compared with the traditional system of data retrieval and dissemination. The ability to have business documents available at the click of a mouse is remarkable. Physical data centers and storage rooms still have their place because the multiple numbers of servers that store cloud data and manage the information processes still have a physical location. Indeed, many physical locations. In retrospect, we look at how data was stored and used in the past. Unquestionably, the process was elaborate, time-consuming, and costly. The cloud offers a convenient and cost-effective way to store and access information. PCL reported cutting back storage costs by 80% using the Azure Cloud. Digital communication has a significant influence on companies’ profitability.
Digital security challenges have developed out of the need to secure users’ sensitive data as digital communication advances on the global horizon. Using mobile devices on digital platforms creates a high level of cybersecurity challenges that need urgent attention from cybersecurity developers and managers. The desire to be connected expands the users’ risk as many users are quick to log on to public Wi-Fi, which, in many cases, is unsecured. Social networks are enticing, and many users are hooked. Hackers are aware of the inordinate desire of users to stay connected by all means. Hence, hackers found that public Wi-Fi may be a good place for phishing. The development of mobile device firewalls has countered many hackers’ strategies regarding mobile computing risks. Safer public and secure platforms are being created by social network service providers that ease the tension as well as create assurance to users who are storing and sharing information on digital and social networks.
Managing the Quality of Social Networks Digital Security 
Protecting information is critical for organizations because of the large amount of data they store in their databases. Not only do organizations store information, but they also access information from other partners, which could also put those entities at risk. Organizations have moved away from the physical filing of papers in large filing cabinets to setting up electronic file cabinets. The technological file cabinet system allows business executives to access stored information without having to walk around with briefcases filled with files. Confidential information such as employee credentials, contracts, proprietary information, customers’ transactions, and interorganizational dealings are always accessible. By protecting the information in their custody, information managers ensure that the information they use in their processes is reliable, accurate, and accessible. Information policies and inspection processes should be implemented to ensure the protection of sensitive information is maintained.
To ensure data protection, security managers should establish information management policies that enforce proper user protocol. Information policies should comprise laws, regulations, and precedents so that users understand the seriousness of violations. Policies are essential because strategic decision-making and business practices depend on reliable information. The engaging process of business and social interactions with modern society consist of the constant generation of information that is timely, fast processing, efficient capabilities, vast dissemination, and informed users. Thus, information policies should include data administration responsibilities, data governance, database access limits, and comprehensive supervision. Management information system (MIS) managers must find and implement the most robust security system available to secure the information they store and access. Failing to implement the proper hardware, software, and policies security system may result in incalculable costs.
A standard inspection must be established to maintain high-quality products and services. Inspection is the process of carefully and critically examining the process by following written guidelines that state how the inspection must be done. Indeed, inspection is a formal examination approach used by developers and product and service providers to identify and correct errors in products or services. Inspection is a necessary component of business processes because it helps ensure that machines and people follow product and service specifications. For instance, without a manufacturing section, a machine designed to calculate employees’ work hours may provide inaccurately worked hours due to a device error. In addition, the inspection aims to identify and fix mistakes before products or services are delivered.
In general, inspectors are well trained professionals responsible for the overall success of the designated processes. The inspection process is referred to as a data quality audit within databases and data quality. A data quality audit intends to identify how accurately the information is stored and used to make decisions and informed processes. Thus, the inspection process is done by reviewing and evaluating data files to see if the data is corrupted, embellished, or manipulated.
A quality inspection is a painstaking and laborious work; however, it promotes safety and guarantees satisfaction when correctly done. Notably, a date quality audit may involve data cleansing that corrects corrupt files and creates new files with consistent and accurate data. The intense use of databases could result in data loss, document deletion, and other digital and technological incidents that could damage the data quality. Therefore, the data that users are accessing and transmitting could be flawed. Given the importance of data, MIS managers must engage in a dynamic process to secure the accuracy of their databases. Constant inspections may ensure the quality of data. Poor data quality may compromise the organizations’ reputation since data is considered a commodity in the new paradigm. Therefore, it becomes a priority of big data custodians to ensure that the information they store and offer to the public is high quality.
The Focus on Service Quality and Social Networks’ Relationships 
Social network platforms have become a real source of people connection and event gatherings. The surge of active users is due mainly to easy connectivity, reliable streaming, and the opportunity to participate in live and real-time events. In addition, social networking platforms provide dynamic user applications for friends, families, and business associates to interact with each other in a global community. By and large, social network platforms are the calculus that brings people of common interests together to establish and sustain meaningful relationships. But unfortunately, social platforms are the target of cybercriminals who seek to prey on unsuspecting users who are engaging in their private social events. Hence, many users are skeptical of social platforms because of impending risks. Fortunately, social network service providers have implemented security layers and multiple authentication systems that protect users and rebuild users’ confidence. Thus, the likelihood of users’ profile compromises is drastically reduced.
Education about social networks’ risk and users’ protection information has certainly increased users’ safety. The knowledge that cybercriminals may attempt to use fake social network (SN) accounts to ask members to reset their network login credentials has proven to be a strong source of awareness and has alerted the vigilance of users. Therefore, using malicious emails to deceive users is no longer an enduring threat. In addition, users are aware that revealing personal data on social network platforms expose them to security risks. Admittedly, cyberscammers are regular social media users; hence, they can spy on fellow users and seek to exploit other users’ vulnerabilities by sending out malicious links that appear authentic. Users who have been victimized have experienced the breach of their personal data and stolen identities. Social networks have provided immense benefits to many individuals and businesses. Unfortunately, some users engage in unethical activities that impair the experience for many users.
Big data service providers and individuals concentrate on the quality of data audits using rigorous inspection methods so users are assured of reliable and accurate information. In addition, data quality audits intend to build users’ confidence so that data service providers can achieve sustainability. Technological innovation is the new facet of quality performance, so data service providers have increased their efforts to provide information that meets the quality standards desired by academic, science, and business researchers.
Indeed, quality information is critical for the growth of global economies since data is the epicenter of the digital age. The offering of quality is a standard expectation of consumers, regardless of the product or service. Since the digitalization of things is the way forward and processes now depend on data to survive, it is incumbent on those who mine, gather, process, and disseminate data to be consciously diligent. New technologies offer the users progressive opportunities and expand investors’ market shares. Some of the ways new technologies are helping to improve and manage quality are:

Improved efficiency by establishing operating procedures
Designing automatic production checking processes
Implementing artificial intelligence systems

Big data service providers have adapted the lean operation strategy to maximize their return on data investments. A lean operation is a business strategy driven by the principle of achieving more with less. The lean concept promotes the building of an organization by devoting a significant portion of the organization’s budget to customer relations to increase customer satisfaction. Lean operations aim to create value for customers and eliminate waste. The vastness and diversity of data present a considerable challenge to big data organizations as they seek to determine which data or data process should be treated as waste. Within a global system, data that could be considered waste may be helpful to some researchers.
By using a data-filtering process, big data organizations can (1) gather, (2) store, (3) process, and (4) disseminate data in real time at a higher quality. Lean strategy allows data service providers to trash some data, summarize long-winded text, edit videos to capture the essence of the story, and provide stimulated production for users. Using the lean strategy, data providers can reach a broader customer base and reduce information management costs. In addition, the lean concept enables organizations to use a data-cleansing tool to reduce storage costs and increase accurate and reliable information.
Brief Summary
Social network platforms have developed security systems allowing users to use their platforms with relatively low interference from cyberintruders. The fear that once permeated users of social network platforms are largely disappearing. The development of digital security layers and multilevel authentication systems has drastically reduced the number of attacks on social network users. There are still challenges, nevertheless, but these challenges are not as impactful as in the past.
Social network interactions and collaboration are now the everyday reality of modern life. Indeed, social media encompasses social and business interactions. According to business research, approximately 90% of advertisers reported that they utilize or most likely will utilize social network platforms for business purposes. In addition, about 60% of business users are likely to gain new clients through their involvement with informal communities.
Exercise Questions:

Social media networks such as Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, TikTok, YouTube, and Instagram have grown enormously over the past two decades due to the number of users who have found this technological communication system helpful. List and explain four ways that social network is useful to users.
Social network plays an essential role in the emergence of structural workspaces and virtual home office establishments. Explain the advantages and disadvantages of working at home.
The emergence of social networks has vastly enhanced the progress of marketing. Explain how social network improves marketing.
Users’ security and protection are prioritized as social media platforms become the primary center of business transactions. Explain the relevance of this statement.
Potential issues faced by social media users include the misuse of personal and sensitive information by illegal operatives. So, how can users protect themselves on social media platforms?
Unfortunately, social network users have experienced identity thefts, data breaches, cybersecurity threats, computer viruses, and privacy invasions. So what are the responsibilities of social media organizations’ management?
The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the global work paradigm and introduced working from home as the new workplace. But are workers as productive at home as they would be working out of their organizations’ offices?
In this chapter, the author stated that the COVID-19 pandemic helped employers understand what?
What are some of the ways that new technologies are helping to improve and manage quality?
By using data-filtering processes, big data organizations can do what?








CHAPTER THIRTEEN
The Threat of Using Cookies, Cybersecurity Exposure, and Costs
Introduction
Cookie pop-ups are popular, and many users are reluctant to click yes to allow cookie access to their computer devices. What is a cookie? A cookie can be defined as a small piece of data sent to your browser from a website you visited or intend to visit to enable the website to keep track of your visits for future use. Furthermore, cookies identify and track users as they search the web and record users’ web activities. The potential risk of cookies is that cybercriminals use them to track and identify a specific user’s online activity. Therefore, users should verify the authenticity of the cookie sender before clicking “yes.” Cyber cookies can capture a user’s online personalized preferences and use them to their advantage. Notably, cookies play an integral role in web services helping providers see users’ interests. With the information collected by cookies, web pages provide more comprehensive information. The use of cookies helps to advance the efficiency of e-commerce by providing information to offer the products that customers are searching for.
In 1994, Lou Montulli, a computer programmer, developed the digital cookie while he was at Netscape Communication Corporation to help websites remember users’ visits so that the web could load the pages the user visited with expanded features rather than trying to create a new page for the user each time the user logged on to the website. The developer intended to reduce the number of pages one user would use and reduce the digital burden on the website. Montulli’s goal for Netscape with browser cookies was to present a medium that allows websites and consumers to communicate through a remembering process, where their browsing preferences would pop up or appear once the user turned on the internet. Cookies have been successful in capturing and storing information about users. However, the amount of personal browsing data stored by cookies and other remembering programs have created opportunities for third parties to access and use the data for their own purposes. 
With the pervasive use of cookies, cybersecurity is a critical component of every MIS system. The purpose of cybersecurity systems is to manage security policies, safeguard data, monitor guidelines, facilitate risk management, and engage in continuing security training and education. Further, a well-managed cybersecurity system is necessary for best practices, users’ assurance, and protect the cyber environment from data breaches. Cyberspace could function in any meaningful way without cybersecurity. Therefore, the cyberworld is indebted to Bob Thomas for his invention of the cybersecurity system in the 1970s.
Thomas began his cybersecurity effort with a research project known as Advanced Research Projects Agency Network (ARPANET). The project led to the development of cybersecurity as we know it today, a program that acts like the gatekeeper that blocks access to other intruding programs from entering your computers. Indeed, cybersecurity programs have made remarkable progress since Thomas invented the first program. Today, cybersecurity has become a complete academic program in universities worldwide. Additionally, cybersecurity has become a department in government and private sector organizations. Further, cybersecurity is how we protect our internet-connected systems, data, and hard and software from cybercriminals.
It is hard to imagine cyberspace without cybercity, considering the growing rate of cybercrimes. Unfortunately, even with cybersecurity systems, users’ sensitive personal information is still being stolen, businesses still face disruptions, and trade secrets are sold on the dark web. Given this very bleak picture, it is no wonder that cybersecurity is such a significant concern for MIS executives and business owners. A CBS MoneyWatch reported that over 80% of businesses have been hacked somehow. Hackers are aware of the ordinary susceptibilities many organizations are vulnerable to, which keeps company security personnel in constant check. Organizations’ management is very concerned about cybersecurity to ensure their operations are protected from cyberattacks.
Cookies Purpose and Usefulness
Cookies are designed to support web browsers and individuals who use search features on websites. The purpose of cookies is to reduce the page load work of web browsers and help individuals continue to use the page they used, which already contains valuable information in the stored memory. A cookie is a program that depends on websites to store and remember all the users’ web browsing activities and information. Further, cookies keep activities of the users’ searches, shopping, and social transactions. Also, cookies count how many times a user visits a website. Markers use cookies to remind customers of their last purchase and introduce them to new products or services. In many ways, cookies are invasive because they track users’ movements and browsing behavior and store personal and sensitive information that users may not want to keep or share.
Notwithstanding the invasiveness of cookies, the program is helpful because it reminds the server that the user has been on the website before. Thus, it directs the user to the page that the user has unintentionally created in the background. Further, cookies help the service provider to know how many times the user has seen the ad that the service provider distributes to target the user. Cookies legitimately target users for marketing purposes, whereas cybercriminals use cookies to steal sensitive information from users. Therefore, cybersecurity is designed to protect networks and computers from harmful cookies or invisible programs that operate like cookies.
Without a robust cybersecurity system, personal information such as passwords can be taken or stolen from cookies and used to access users’ online accounts. Many users allow cookies on their devices but do not understand how they work behind the scenes. Therefore, it is essential to understand the risks and dangers of accepting cookies and seek to manage them using cookie blockers. The purpose of cookies is to identify web users and personalize their web browsing. Cybersecurity is designed for watching cookies’ activities and blocking potential invaders; however, cybersecurity sometimes cannot always determine when a program that has cookie features is not an authentic cookie. That is why the users are responsible for allowing or disallowing cookies.
For iteration, in 1994, Louis Montulli invented the HTTP Cookie. The primary purpose was to help websites become more agile and commercially efficient. However, the websites’ capability to collect data and understand users’ activities was not efficient. Thus, retail stores and other business enterprises could not collect pertinent customer information from their websites without surveys and questionnaires. For example, retailers used to count the number of people entering their stores by the number of purchases made. However, many customers who entered stores did not make purchases, and the retailers did not know what they were looking for. Cookies can bridge that gap. Today, retailers know the interests and preferences of their customers using cookie-tracking features.
Businesses have taken advantage of the benefits of cookies’ enormous success. So, it has become a standard feature for websites around the world. The cookie concept has expanded into three different kinds. They are as follows: Session, Persistent, and Third-party Cookies. Each has its own unique features; however, they all engage in the specific task of tracking, storing, and collecting data.

The Session Cookies are also known as in-memory, nonpersistent, or transient cookies. This kind of cookie is temporary and is active only when the website is in use. Further, a session cookie can be deleted when the web user closes the web page.
The Persistent Cookies, also known as first-party cookies, have immense tracking capabilities. The Persistent Cookie is designed to track your preferences. For example, whenever you visit a website and make personal changes, your changes will be remembered and stored so that your choices will be on your record the next time you visit the website. Persistent cookies are typically stored on a hard disk and saved for a long time.
The third type of cookie is Third-party Cookie, also known as a tracking cookie. This cookie saves data based on the online behavior of users. The tracking cookie collects your browsing interests, searches, locations, and pertinent information for marketing purposes. The user information is collected so marketers can customize advertisements based on the data collected to target the users. Third-party cookies are not dangerous but are invasive. Again, the general purpose is to collect and provide information to marketers. Users can block third-party cookies by turning on pop-up blockers.

Using cookies has inherent risks, such as cross-site requests and forgery attacks. One of the intrinsic weaknesses of cookies is that a request can be made to a browser, and a browser will send the cookie even if the origin of the request is unknown. Browsers are unable to differentiate who makes a request. Therefore, the browser will send the request to the web user, whether the request is legitimate or illegitimate if the data cookie is available.
In many cases, cookies are a parasitic program because it only feeds off websites. Indeed, cookies are a program dependent on websites to store and remember users’ web browsing activities. By collecting information, web business managers can use business analytics to determine potential purchases, products that are market leaders, new market trends, and the number of times users visit the websites. The information collected by cookies helps service providers to be more informed; thus, they can be intentional about their products and service offerings. The fact that the cookie tells the web server the users’ visit status, such as whether the user is new or a returning user, helps the web server allocate its resources efficiently.
The web server will provide initial prompting requests to new users to get to know them. Then the web server will attempt to introduce new information to returning users. The target for returning users is remarkably different from those of new users, given that the system already knows the preferences of returning users. Interestingly, the overarching challenge for cookie developers and users is cybersecurity. The ability to secure the vast volume of data collected by cookies continues to frustrate cookie users. Cybersecurity software protects networks, computers, mobile devices, and peripherals from damaging or corrupting data, software, and hardware. Although cookies provide immense benefits to users, many serious threats expose users to substantial risks. It is noteworthy to reiterate that unscrupulous operatives have used cookies with malicious intent, such as stealing users’ passwords.
Personal information such as login credentials and passwords can be easily stolen from cookies and used to access users’ accounts. In addition, cybercriminals are using malware to engage in phishing activities. Therefore, online users should be aware of the risks and dangers that arise from the use of cookies. Thus, when a user accepts a cookie invitation, the user should be mindful of the potential exposure of personal information. For the purpose of iteration, the primary reason for using cookies is to identify web users and personalize their web browsing activities for repeat use. Cookies work well and offer a remarkable service to web providers and users. However, the potential to leak sensitive information to unauthorized users has caused much discomfort to users.
When Louis Montulli invented the HTTP Cookie, the intent was to help websites become more viable and commercially efficient. Before cookies, websites did not have a robust method of collecting information that would help businesses provide seamless services. The traditional counting system was used to track the traffic of regular customers. Today, there has been no need for traditional counting since the cookie’s invention. The cookie is a fantastic program that saves data based on users’ online activities. Tracking cookies has been collecting users’ browsing interests and making marketers’ marketing experience far more productive, as marketers can customize advertisements based on the information collected by cookies.
Although cookies are invasive in many ways, they are not a required feature to access a website. Therefore, users have the option of disabling cookies on their browsers. Additionally, users may use third-party add-ons that enable the user to block and protect from unwanted programs, including cookies. Hence, users who do not want their browsing activities to be shared can utilize those program blockers. Of course, cookies are helpful and not a harmful program; however, because they track and store users’ browsing activities, they may create a path user vulnerability. Some of the usefulness of cookies are:

Provide continuity to the previous web page.
Assist websites in remembering the login details, such as users’ user IDs and passwords.
Provides users’ preferences and content that is relevant to users’ browsing interests.
Provides marketers with information used to tailor product offerings.

Cookies are vulnerable and may expose users’ information to unauthorized perpetrators. Therefore, cybersecurity is critical for web service providers and users who may log in to websites and unknowingly expose their computer or device settings. The advancement of modern firewalls and cybersecurity education have established processes designed to protect data, devices, and programs from unauthorized users who may be inclined to steal sensitive users’ information. It is imperative to note that regardless of the size and type of business, cybersecurity is of utmost importance because many third-party companies are linked to organizations such as government agencies, medical facilities, and financial institutions that store a significant amount of personal data. Thus, a third-party vendor can be a gateway for unauthorized access.
Since connectivity and exchange are constantly occurring, each user must be carefully protected to avoid being used as a weak point for cybercriminals. Each user who engages in information exchanges on networks should be mindful that one careless act could compromise the information of many users. Cyberattacks can result in grim financial costs for business enterprises and individuals. In addition, financial costs incurred by cyberattacks may damage a business’s reputation and destroy its marketability.
When an organization’s security system is hacked or breached, it reveals the organization’s network security vulnerability. One of the consequences of a data security breach is the loss of revenues, especially for e-commerce transactions. It is commercially efficient that customers have constant real-time access to businesses where they desire to shop. Suppose a company has a website that is not readily accessible to customers. In that case, the customers may seek an alternative, resulting in market share and revenue loss.
Poor cybersecurity may not only result in the loss of revenues. In some cases, it may result in the loss of intellectual property. The loss of intellectual properties could have long-term effects on a business enterprise as competitive advantages are lost. For example, the loss of a designed blueprint may allow competitors to gain valuable insights into the business operations of the competition and destroy the competition’s competitive edge. Furthermore, another enormous cost associated with data breaches is heavy fines, damages, and legal fees. For instance, in 2017, the credit agency Equifax was maliciously hacked, which exposed the personal and sensitive data of 146.6 million Americans. Incredibly, the malicious data breach suffered by Equifax resulted in an expected cost of around $600 million to resolve.
According to Digital Guardian, for an organization to have a successful cybersecurity system, the organization’s information system must be well coordinated within the entire organization by having the following key elements:

Network security: Protecting the network from unwanted users, attacks, and intrusions.
Application security: Constant updates and testing is required to ensure these programs are secure from attacks.
Endpoint security: Protecting remote access to an organization’s network. Remote access is necessary but can also be considered a weak point for data.
Data security: Protecting company and customer information is a separate layer of protection.
Identity management: Identifying the access every individual has in an organization.
Database and infrastructure security: Protecting databases and physical equipment.
Cloud security: Protection of data that is in an online environment, which presents many challenges.
Mobile security: Cell phones and tablets involve every type of security.
Disaster recovery/business continuity planning: In case of a security breach, natural disaster, or other event, data must be protected, and business must go on.

One of the most challenging elements of cybersecurity is the continuous evolution of security risks. There will always be new technological developments that intend to hack and steal online users’ personal data. Indeed, it is enormously difficult for individuals and organizations to keep pace with expert criminal technologists. Cybercriminals are updating and scaling their methods to be more effective with every new invasive invention. Indeed, a lot has been on the path of organizations, especially big data organizations, to consumers’ data and private information; nevertheless, the challenge to manage the risk of data exposure remains a pending constant. Online transactions and cookies are beneficial regardless of the many difficulties online users face. Users can be vigilant and utilize available cybersecurity protection to protect their information assets.
The Use of Cookies and Potential Challenges
Notably, cookies are a harmless program; in general, the data contained in the cookie does not change. Because cookies are relatively harmless, the corruption of a cookie program with viruses and other malware is generally unsuccessful. To gain access to cookies, cyberattacks tend to hijack the cookie and gain access to users’ online browsing. Cookies do not have the capabilities to read a system’s hard drive to find critical data about a user. However, any personal information that the user provides to a website, including personal financial information, will most likely be saved in a cookie system unless the user turns off the cookie feature before engaging in online activities. Even though cookies are a harmless program, they are stored on users’ machines and can be easily corrupted and manipulated by malicious users.
Also, cookies can be used to steal data and track the histories of users for fraudulent purposes. Earlier in the text, types of cookies were introduced. At this juncture, the author will discuss two types of cookies. Namely, First-party and Third-party cookies. There are no significant or fundamental differences between the two, except that First-party cookies only work on a single domain, while Third-party cookies track users across multiple domains. They both perform similar functions; howbeit, in different capacities. They generally track, collect, and store users’ browsing information for future use.
Some cookies may present more threats than others, depending on the origin.
Exercise Questions: First-Party Cookies

Where are first-party cookies stored? In
What do first-party cookies allow?
Are first-party cookies safe?
Are there many first-party cookies online?

Exercise Questions: Third-Party Cookies

Is third-party cookies safe? Is third-party cookies invasive?.
What is the primary purpose of third-party cookies?
Do third-party cookies threaten users’ privacy?
Do web users have control over all cookies’ permission?

When zombie cookies first appeared on the World Wide Web, they were created from data stored in the Adobe Flash storage bin. As a result, zombie cookies were known as so-called flash cookies. Zombie cookies pose significant threats to users because they are challenging to detect and delete from the user’s computer or web server. Banks and online finance websites use flash-based cookies precisely for their ability to evade detection. Since zombie cookies are difficult to detect and delete, they are less known than standard browser-based cookies. Thus, financial institutions’ websites store flash cookies on their users’ computers to authenticate account owners and prevent fraud.
Flash cookies are used to authenticate the users’ computers and not just the users’ login credentials. This system strengthens cybersecurity as cybercriminals may have the users’ login credentials but may not have access to their personal computers. Therefore, the flash cookie adds multiple layers of security authentication to the users’ login credentials. Flash cookies operate discretely, and customers are generally unaware of their existence. Due to the strong advocacy of consumer groups and privacy proponents, flash-based cookies are being phased out to promote best practices and transparency. Consequently, the newer versions of Adobe Flash notify users that a cookie is being planted and explicitly seek users’ consent to store website server information on their computers.
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is one of the world’s strictest privacy and security law regulators. GDPR was drafted and approved by the European Union. It states that websites must install disclaimer notices for internet users visiting websites, particularly commercially oriented websites, for the first time. In addition, the regulation empowers website users to have the right to decide to what extent they wish to share their personal information on the website that they are visiting, as well as what type of information the users want to allow the website to store. Thus, it curtails undesirable behaviors, such as monitoring malicious websites established to mishandle users’ data. In general, websites operating in the EU must keep note of the type of cookies they are using to collect consumers’ information. Therefore, websites must adhere to the law by informing users that the websites are using tracking cookies. However, in non-EU countries, the law is not enforced; hence, websites are not required to notify their users that they are using tracking cookies.
By managing cookies’ access to users’ personal data, cybersecurity threats can be drastically reduced, thereby significantly diminishing the threat level that could impact national economies’ physical infrastructure. Many organizations have sustained an abundance of cyberattacks, indicating that unauthorized users have the tools and technology to access and steal sensitive data from a protected network system. Unfortunately, cookies are one of the ways cybersecurity can be breached. Cybercriminals carefully target digital messages they have accessed through cookie programs and use the information to target unsuspecting users by appealing to their preferences. For instance, cybercriminals may use coupons and prizes to lure unsuspecting users into sharing vital information. Because internet fraudsters can access users’ cookies, they know what would appeal to them. Therefore, they use that familiar ground to gain the confidence of unsuspecting users. In addition, cybercriminals use psychological strategies such as urgency to get users to act fast. Users are likely to pay less attention to procedural steps whenever they act fast. Hence, users should avoid urgent emails that contain prizes with short deadlines. These emails are disguised malware designed to steal users’ sensitive data.
Again, cookies provide knowledge to those who manage them. A cyberfraudster will know that a user desires cryptocurrency by collecting users’ information through cookies. Many cryptocurrency traders have been affected by cyberattacks. Cybercriminals have hijacked third-party home and work computers to mine information that may help them breach users’ cryptocurrency accounts. Mining for cryptocurrency, such as Bitcoins, requires advanced high-tech systems. Hackers are generally equipped with these tools and look for users’ weak points to gain access.
Hackers can make money by secretly retracing a user’s digital footprint once the hacker gains access to the user’s computer systems. Cryptojacking is malware that hackers use to access users’ crypto activities. For businesses, cryptojacking malware can seriously slow down the user’s computer network, resulting in poor system performance and costly downtime. However, once users know this malware, they can be vigilant with how they use other websites, especially how they manage cookies.
The cybercriminal enterprise has grown significantly over the past two decades, while reputable, law-abiding organizations and national governments have struggled to hire qualified technology experts to stem the growing threat of data and information thefts. Academic research alluded that the trend is expected to continue into the 2020s and beyond. Employment agencies estimated that there are approximately 1 million unfilled positions for technology skills within the technology workforce, such as cybersecurity personnel, firewall programmers, network administrators, and management information system managers.
The severe shortage of skilled cybersecurity and management information system professionals inspired colleges and universities to introduce new technology programs and degrees to fulfill the growing demand for this concentration. Indeed, the world has transitioned into the digital age; hence, it requires a strong, intelligent digital workforce to maintain operational efficiency. Furthermore, skilled technology professionals are essential for developing robust antivirus programs that can withstand the sophisticated cybersecurity threats that e-commerce face in cyberspace. For example, cybersecurity experts alluded that ransomware affects 62% of small- to medium-sized businesses and 32% of larger organizations, according to the Beazley Breach Briefing
