# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2015 - This research data verified that companies of all sizes are at risk of a data breach. Although Fortune 500 companies are high-profile targets for cybercriminals, small enterprises are not exempt.
In addition to organizations, cybercriminals attack regular hardworking people who use the internet for daily and occasional business use and social transactions. One of the ways cybercriminals target ordinary household users is by phishing and card cloning. Phishing means obtaining sensitive information such as passwords and usernames, which can be easily obtained through different types of malware and software.
Hackers are now equipped with sophisticated tools to get straight to a user’s access source, where they can inject malicious codes into a social networking site. Also, hackers have embedded inside advertisements and third-party apps on various social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. In addition, hackers are using shortened URLs to trick users into visiting malicious sites where they can extract personal and corporate information from unsuspecting users.
Another major concern that cybersecurity administrators are addressing is the degree to which cybercriminals have infiltrated social media platforms. Social media platforms represent a group of internet-based applications that build on the ideological and technological foundations of web 2.0, allowing user-generated content to be created and exchanged using platforms like Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, Snapchat, and TikTok. Billions of people are building online communities worldwide and connecting with one another. Social media has become the primary means of interaction in this global society. Thus, cybercriminals are at the top of their game as they seek to exploit potential revenue sources. Cybercriminals increase their vigilance and become increasingly strategic with their attacks as the World Wide Web creates a platform that offers novel opportunities for socialization and interaction among users. The World Wide Web has transformed how modern society conducts business and shares information such as personal data, news events, opinions, as well as buying and selling.
Cyber researchers have discovered that cybercriminals used social media sites and active users’ data to mastermind some of the largest data breaches in social media history over the past five years. LinkedIn is one of the social media sites that cybercriminals use to gather public social data and social engineering tactics for their cybercriminal efforts. In 2015, Anthem Health suffered a breach of 80 million stolen records. In addition, Twitter’s social media web platform was used by cybercriminals as an integral component of innovative malware to exploit users. The malware was known as Hammertoss. It acts like normal computer users while stealing sensitive files. This technique has even been rumored to be connected to the Pentagon’s data breach last summer that took down the security agency’s 4,200-employee email server for two weeks, where undetermined amounts of data were stolen.
Some of the issues that cyber administrators are addressing include cyberattacks such as denial-of-service (DdoS) attacks. These attacks are increasing at an alarming rate, thus, slowing down legitimate internet users and reducing accessibility time. These attacks have become commonplace in the world. Also, cybertheft and cyber espionage are rampant among rival countries that use cyber espionage to make political statements. Cybercriminals benefit from stolen properties such as financial records, private data, and proprietary information of persons. Cybercriminals are gaining control of critical organizational systems, thus, putting citizens at risk.
Problems and Challenges
Security Relevance Score: 23
Word Count: 4434
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

This research data verified that companies of all sizes are at risk of a data breach. Although Fortune 500 companies are high-profile targets for cybercriminals, small enterprises are not exempt.
In addition to organizations, cybercriminals attack regular hardworking people who use the internet for daily and occasional business use and social transactions. One of the ways cybercriminals target ordinary household users is by phishing and card cloning. Phishing means obtaining sensitive information such as passwords and usernames, which can be easily obtained through different types of malware and software.
Hackers are now equipped with sophisticated tools to get straight to a user’s access source, where they can inject malicious codes into a social networking site. Also, hackers have embedded inside advertisements and third-party apps on various social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. In addition, hackers are using shortened URLs to trick users into visiting malicious sites where they can extract personal and corporate information from unsuspecting users.
Another major concern that cybersecurity administrators are addressing is the degree to which cybercriminals have infiltrated social media platforms. Social media platforms represent a group of internet-based applications that build on the ideological and technological foundations of web 2.0, allowing user-generated content to be created and exchanged using platforms like Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, LinkedIn, Instagram, Snapchat, and TikTok. Billions of people are building online communities worldwide and connecting with one another. Social media has become the primary means of interaction in this global society. Thus, cybercriminals are at the top of their game as they seek to exploit potential revenue sources. Cybercriminals increase their vigilance and become increasingly strategic with their attacks as the World Wide Web creates a platform that offers novel opportunities for socialization and interaction among users. The World Wide Web has transformed how modern society conducts business and shares information such as personal data, news events, opinions, as well as buying and selling.
Cyber researchers have discovered that cybercriminals used social media sites and active users’ data to mastermind some of the largest data breaches in social media history over the past five years. LinkedIn is one of the social media sites that cybercriminals use to gather public social data and social engineering tactics for their cybercriminal efforts. In 2015, Anthem Health suffered a breach of 80 million stolen records. In addition, Twitter’s social media web platform was used by cybercriminals as an integral component of innovative malware to exploit users. The malware was known as Hammertoss. It acts like normal computer users while stealing sensitive files. This technique has even been rumored to be connected to the Pentagon’s data breach last summer that took down the security agency’s 4,200-employee email server for two weeks, where undetermined amounts of data were stolen.
Some of the issues that cyber administrators are addressing include cyberattacks such as denial-of-service (DdoS) attacks. These attacks are increasing at an alarming rate, thus, slowing down legitimate internet users and reducing accessibility time. These attacks have become commonplace in the world. Also, cybertheft and cyber espionage are rampant among rival countries that use cyber espionage to make political statements. Cybercriminals benefit from stolen properties such as financial records, private data, and proprietary information of persons. Cybercriminals are gaining control of critical organizational systems, thus, putting citizens at risk.
Problems and Challenges

The overall challenge for cyber administrators is getting internet users to follow cybersecurity protocols that protect unsuspecting users and businesses from cyberthreats. The transportation industry is particularly vulnerable due to the advancement of modern systems, such as electronic sensors, that are used in every type of vehicle, both land and air. Cybercriminals may have the tools needed to exploit the closed caption television and signal control system of large transportation management centers (TMC). Cybercriminals could cripple operations by deleting critical files needed by the TMC servers. This indicates the vulnerability of modern transportation networks. In addition, hackers have developed tools to access the transportation database if users fail to comply with the established protocols. To infiltrate national transportation systems, cyberattackers are targeting TMC workstations, where the operators may be less vigilant.
Cybersecurity threats on vehicle inclination sensors could cause the vehicle to slow down or start to break, which could result in significant accidents. Cybercriminals who use cybersecurity to attack cars could cause catastrophic damage by tampering and interfering with the car’s sensors, which are responsible for safe driving. Researchers estimated that autonomous vehicles (AV) software might use more than 100 million lines of code. Hence, it is impossible to predict potential cybersecurity problems. Cybersecurity is a growing problem that continues to affect people on the global landscape. It can be estimated that at least 150 countries have been affected by the cyberattacks from the WannaCry ransomware virus.
Cybercriminals are now attempting to use sophisticated, remote-controlled hacking systems to access organizations’ workstations to access network servers. Furthermore, companies are at risk of IP theft, thus exposing valuable business ideas and inventions to cybercriminals. Also, cybercriminals could leak or sell sensitive business secrets and technical strategies to competitors, destroying a company’s competitive advantage. Hence, the competitors become the most dangerous threats in the domain of cybersecurity because of the loss of strategic and critical operations information.
The installation of harmful malware on unsuspecting users’ computers is one of the strategic practices of cybercriminals. Technological-advanced malware can encrypt files on network drives, databases, and backup systems, thus, causing serious damage to the targeted organization’s critical information infrastructure. The malware may be distributed through ads on major websites as well. Social media continue to be a significant threat to cybersecurity as more people unaware of cyber-danger join these networks. Social media is associated with high levels of cyberthreats, major breaches, fraud, costs, and loss of revenues.
Cybercriminals have found many ways to exploit and take advantage of social media to gain access to sensitive and usable data. Hackers have created fake accounts, then use them to build trust with legitimate users to manipulate and carry out their schemes. Therefore, it is imperative that users do not share sensitive information with their online friends on social media platforms. This is very important because social networks such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, What’s App, and Messenger have played a vital role in communication among users in recent years.
Cybersecurity and Tourist Destinations
Cybercriminals have been attacking hot tourist destinations. One such destination is the Dominican Republic. This tropical island faces cybersecurity threats due to its potential for rich, sensitive data sources. This tourist hot spot has become the target of numerous cyberattacks over the past five years. Cybersecurity issues on the island may impact millions of tourists who travel there for vacations. Unfortunately, many tourists are unaware of the cybersecurity challenges within the country. In the Dominican Republic, cyberattacks cover a wide range of external and internal threats due to the locale of the island and the proximity to other nations in the Americas. Three of the most prominent cyberattacks cybercriminals launch on tourists are Phishing, Card Cloning, and Hacking. Cybercriminals also engage in CD/DVD cloning, unauthorized network access, email thefts, modem box cloning, data destruction, data breaches, and software piracy.
Cyberthreats constitute a significant problem for the Dominican Republic because of the inadequate framework for cybersecurity education. The resulting factor is insufficient oversight of the country’s cybersecurity education. Organizations trying to develop and promote cybersecurity in educational systems and classrooms are having difficulties due to the lack of political and economic structures. There is no known educational framework established to disseminate knowledge regarding the dangers of cybersecurity. Without a robust cybersecurity educational system, attacks will increase at an alarming rate in the country. A severe cyberattack on the island’s infrastructure in the form of malware, worms, and other sophisticated methods could cause extensive, costly damage. In addition, the island has limited resources to engage in reverse engineering. It needs experts that could perform low-level code analysis or advise organizations about secure coding practices to ensure they are safer once they launch cybersecurity applications.
The Issues of Privacy and Security
Privacy and security will always be the principal focus of most organizations, especially in this present time, where all information is secured digitally. Today, more than 60% of the total commercial transactions are done online, so the information field requires a high quality of security for transparency and best transactional practices. Not only does cybersecurity affect private businesses, but it also affects government agencies. Security and intelligence practitioners rapidly increase their cyber capabilities to respond to cyberthreats. In addition, the core mission of many sovereign nations is to establish high-level cybersecurity systems to protect their homeland and advance national security interests.
Although it seems that cybersecurity and privacy issues only affect major organizations, it is important to note that cybersecurity affects every individual regardless of direct internet use since all or most of our sensitive information is held in digital forms. It is crucial to practice data security, thus, focusing on prevention and in-depth defensive mechanisms to guard against potential cyber invasions. In addition, it is critical that cyber administrators and their support staff set up systems to identify, monitor, and address insider threats. One of the ways to manage these threats is to compartmentalize critical systems to limit unauthorized access and make sure that there is a comprehensive contingency plan in place.
The essence of this topic is to bring awareness and highlight ways that management can change their operations to help prevent or make it harder for cyberattacks to get unauthorized access to private data. Some corrective actions that can aid various organizations in their efforts to combat cyberthreats include having at least a small IT department or an outside consultant performing IT functions such as firewall maintenance and network inspections. Furthermore, corporations’ boards should mandate that their IT professionals provide at least an update on potential weaknesses in the organization’s cybersecurity infrastructure and practices. This is because many companies do not have a chief information security officer to help establish policies and procedures to ensure data security and minimize cyberthreats.
Additionally, an investment in training staff and employees to follow cybersecurity procedures would significantly enhance data security. The urgent nature of data security requires constant consulting on how to develop a plan to counteract an attack. Communication is a crucial component to the successful preparation of cyberthreats. A possible solution to combating cyberattacks may include hiring personnel with specialized skills in cybertechnology. Hacker strategists can form task forces and collaborate with operational managers to analyze the cyberattack implications of different business enterprises. One of the most effective ways to fight cybercrime is to hire experts with skills that are advanced and comparable to hackers. In this sense, the expert employee can undermine the strategy of criminal hackers.
Navigating through social media requires many precautions. Users who follow precautions are less likely to be hacked. Social media users should be cautious when sharing information with other users, especially when the users have no formal face-to-face connection. Most social media websites allow their users to manage their privacy settings. Therefore, users can decide who to share their personal information with. Users of social media, as well as general internet users, should install and update security software such as firewalls and antivirus protection on computer systems as well as mobile devices to avoid malicious apps and other threats.
Internet users possess vital information that can be taken from them very quickly if they are not vigilant. Such information includes location, credit card information, Social Security numbers, financial information, and much more. There are more online interactions today than ever, mainly due to the convenience of online transactions. The ability to acquire goods and services without leaving the comfort of their homes has fueled the escalation of online activities. Modern business enterprises are driven by internet connectivity; hence, hackers seek opportunities to access and capture all possible useful information.
Cyberattacks are prevalent and are having a serious impact on users around the globe. Some cyberattacks tend to focus primarily on banks’ infrastructure, telecommunications carriers, power companies, and other systems that could cause significant harm to both organizations and private users. Cybersecurity has been a neglected department that has been poorly funded because some costs of intrusions are externalized onto others, such as users and insurance companies. In addition, the advancement of new connections and Wi-Fi have increased interaction with people across boundaries. Thus, the cyberworld creates benefits and risks for users because of the amount of information available at the users’ fingertips.
Theoretical Application and Human Resources
The strategic operation management decision process of human resources and job design is applicable to cybersecurity research. Human resources determine how to recruit, motivate, and retain personnel with the required talent and skills suitable to help combat the spread of cyberattacks. People are an integral and expensive part of the total system design. Therefore, the objective of the human resources strategy is to manage labor and design jobs so that human capital can be effectively and efficiently utilized.
Strategic talent search and recruitment are imperative because organizations need to hire employees with specific skill sets that can counteract cyberthreats and protect organizations’ assets from unauthorized access. The empirical literature suggests that organizations should recruit team members who think like hackers to stay ahead and thwart hackers’ strategies. Some big data organizations have hired hackers, so-called ethical hacker strategists and technologists, to assist in their fight to protect customer data. Academic researchers contended that hiring hackers is risky given the unfettered access to sensitive information and their affiliation with criminals to the criminal hackers’ network. Cybersecurity strategists maintained that it is a more shrew cybersecurity management strategy to hire, train, and develop cybersecurity talent than hire hackers. Hiring the right cybersecurity personnel to plan, design, and administrate cybersecurity procedures, policies, and protocols may be a more effective counter cybersecurity strategy than hiring hackers.
A well-designed job component is necessary to establish the course for a robust security system. Job design specifies the tasks that constitute a job for an individual or a group. Primarily, a strategy for job design includes self-directed teams, that is, groups of empowered individuals working together to reach a common goal. Some advantages of adopting the self-directed work team in the case of cybersecurity are greater employee responsibilities, direct accountability, improved quality of product-service deliveries, and, most importantly, faster responses to technological changes. Self-directed teams will definitely lower the number of cybersecurity threats to businesses.
Within the context of strategic business operations decisions, as it relates to cybersecurity and supply chain management, it is noteworthy to note that the supply chain management personnel decide how to integrate the supply chain with layers of secure systems. Management should guard against the ability of hackers to manipulate and disrupt the supply chain. The supply chain disruption could result in a shortage of supplies, escalation of prices, and an economic downturn. Due to the multiple partners involved in the supply chain, cybersecurity risks could come from suppliers, vendors, purchasers, and point-of-sales integrated systems. The supply chain compromise could have serious consequences; hence, administrators must engage in strategic security measures. Also, a disruption in the supply chain could generate significant losses that could affect future investments by third parties. The supply chain is as strong as the weakest link; a weak link in the supply chain is the potential for hackers to breach the supply chain connections and steal sensitive information.
Scheduling is an important strategic business. The operations process required thoughtful administration in light of aggressive cyberthreats. Scheduling determines orderly implementation, a long-term and short-term task that effectively utilizes personnel and facilities efficiently to meet customers’ demands. Along with scheduling nominal business activities, businesses should be positioning the key personnel to maintain resistance to cyberthreats. Companies should schedule basic and advanced internal training on best practices for cyberdefense. Having employees with at least some basic knowledge of cybersecurity defense constantly provides data safety, lessen the chance of a data breach, and puts the company at an advantage over its competitors. 
One of the reasons why businesses fail to realize an equitable return on some infrastructure investments is the lack of extensive, regular maintenance. Regularly scheduled maintenance is necessary so that machinery and plant equipment operate at total performance capacity. Production and personnel demand cannot be met if the required maintenance is ignored. To maintain a reliable and stable operation process, management must prioritize the maintenance budget. Maintaining business cybersecurity systems is just as important as maintaining the plant and equipment. Maintaining organizations’ security systems is a key component of combatting cybersecurity issues. Having a stringent maintenance policy will help businesses in a healthy production industry. Strict maintenance and continuously updating key infrastructure components are essential to keep important information from getting into the hands of hackers. 
The geographical location of an organization could make the strategic business operation of the organization susceptible to cyberthreats. Therefore, the selection of locations requires sound judgments. In selecting sites, management should pay special attention to the location’s infrastructure in terms of modern technological systems, roads, talent, and law and order. The distance between customers and suppliers should be of significant consideration. Proximity to customers, suppliers, and talent should form the core consideration as businesses endeavor to reduce costs and increase profits. The costs of infrastructure, logistics, and government expenses could be considerable based on location. Although cybersecurity issues are pervasive on the World Wide Web, smart location acquisition strategy is a pivotal element in identifying sites that are less likely known for cyberattacks and breaches. Locations with harsh legal repercussions and stringent regulations on cybersecurity should be high on the location acquisition plan. Countries and territories where cybersecurity offenses are prosecuted vigorously are less likely to engage in aggressive cyberscams than countries with poor cybersecurity penalties and fines.
The design of goods and services forms a significant part of commercial organizational activities. The design of goods and services must be rooted in quality management. Regarding quality management, the operations manager’s objective is to build a total quality management system (TQM) that satisfies customer needs. Satisfied customers equate to increased revenues. In addition, excellent quality increases product demand and the company’s reputation. The implementation of product strategy must be aligned with consistent quality that meets the expectations of the marketplace.
Within the quality component of a product lies the expectation of safety. Therefore, to boost consumers’ confidence, a robust security system should be in place to combat cyberthreats when displaying new products. The high level of electronic components that construct modern products makes most products vulnerable to cyberthreats. Hence, it is incumbent on product developers and producers to ensure that cybersecurity features are embedded securely. Academic researchers stated that one-third of hospital executives had purchased cybersecurity solutions blindly without much vision or discernment of a clear trajectory. Cybersecurity researchers contended that many organizational leaders are not taking the necessary precautions to maintain sound cybersecurity systems. It is imperative to note that the delivery of excellent quality includes safety and consistency, coupled with a great layout strategy.
Layout strategy has gained prominence as fierce product competition demands an aggressive display of products in the path of consumers’ attention. Layout strategy requires integrating capacity needs, personnel levels, appropriate technology, and inventory requirements. In addition, the layout strategy must consider people and vehicle traffic and accommodate the efficient flow of materials, people, and information. Thus, the human factor is critical, especially within human resources.
Human resources and capital investments provide optimal results when integrated with adequate cybersecurity systems. Cybersecurity managers should acquire the required number of workers equipped with cybersecurity skills and assign them to specific cybersecurity tasks. In addition, cybersecurity administrators should acquire advanced technology to counteract cyberthreats and minimize data breaches. Updated protection systems are of necessity for organizations that are handling important information. The efficient and safe flow of information largely depends on a well-fortified security system. Cybersecurity researchers suggested that senior management should be actively engaged in all aspects of cyber governance, from the planning, developing, and implementing stages. Implementing sustainable cybersecurity governance may create a path to hold cybercriminals accountable.
Cybersecurity and Big Data
Cybersecurity literature revealed that cybersecurity is still a major concern for internet users worldwide. The escalation of online transactions has exposed millions of sensitive data to criminal elements. The US healthcare industry is one of the industries at risk of cyberthreats due to the vast network of vendors and participants. Criminal cyberattacks on healthcare organizations have increased by 125% during the last five years. In addition, cybersecurity experts suggested that the increasing use of smart medical equipment and mobile devices is making healthcare organizations more susceptible to ransomware and other types of malwares.
With the continuing evolution of technology, attackers can gain access to personal files with sensitive data. Essentially, advanced technology has increased business productive capacity and created opportunities for cyberbreaches. Cybersecurity researchers found that vendors that implement poor security measures, including weak encryption protocols, allow themselves to become easy targets for hackers. Cybercriminals have tools capable of breaking into internet of things (IoT)-equipped devices and launching distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. Cybercriminals also plant eavesdrop devices on network traffic and steal passwords and confidential data. The medical industry can reduce direct cyber activities by using more advanced equipment in healthcare systems and hospitals.
Social media platforms are at the high end of the cyber risk spectrum due to the high number of users, considering that social media websites operate on the global network. Interconnectivity may create weak security links and vulnerabilities. Vulnerability exists in cross-site scripting, clickjacking, baiting, phishing, phreaking, scams, and spoofing. The injection of malicious codes into social network platforms through advertising via third-party apps is very deceptive and has deceived many unsuspecting users. The popularity of social media has presented an open field of valuable data that captures the attention of cybercriminals. Alongside social media, small, midsize, and large businesses risk data breaches.
Small and midsize businesses are at risk because of rapid technological changes. Many cannot acquire the necessary resources to keep up with advanced technology systems. Research data show that 43% of all attacks targeted small businesses, which indicates that small companies are at risk of data breaches. Although cybercriminals tend to focus on large organizations, many target small businesses because of the potential ease of access. Also, many small businesses are connected to large organizations; thus, they can become a gateway for cybercriminals. Cybercriminals are strategic in their cyberattack approaches. For instance, they will seek to access the organizations’ IP addresses, giving them access to critical operating files.
Big Business, Big Data
Big business, big data, and an extensive review of cybersecurity literature show the impact that cyberthreats have on big and small industries. Cyberthreats pose multiple threats to all internet users. Cybercriminals seek access to sensitive information through various devices, including the internet of things (IoT) and third-party applications. However, cybersecurity administrators can make hackers’ work difficult by establishing operating protocols, following scheduled upgrade policies, and installing proven firewall systems. In addition, cybersecurity managers should establish ongoing training for all staff and employees. Training would sharpen employees’ awareness and make a huge difference to many industries compared to untrained employees whose actions may compromise cybercity.
Cyberattackers and Data Security
Cyberattacks have become a global pandemic, adversely affecting countries and territories. Many countries have now considered cybersecurity as a major national security risk. Thus, cybersecurity management has become a top priority. The widespread attacks on government agencies and major financial industries have alerted governments to take action to curb the escalation of data theft and network sabotage. Cybersecurity experts reported that more than 75 countries had designated cybersecurity as their top priority. Many Asian countries, including Singapore, are battling cyberattacks. It is imperative to note that even countries with sophisticated cyber protection systems, like the United States and the United Kingdom, face cyberattacks threats. 
Notably, the United States has a significant budget to fight cybercrimes; yet, many US government agencies have been plagued with cyberattacks. Cybersecurity researchers alluded that the Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative invested $40 billion over five years. Yet, that undertaking failed to change the underlying dynamics of cyberthreats. A significant cybersecurity threat comes from corporations that sell and trade personal information as their product offerings. Corporations that deal with sensitive users’ information may unintentionally leak sensitive information to cybercriminals who use the information to obtain more sensitive data. Users’ privacy may be compromised due to the unregulated use of personal data as a business product.
Corporations that sell information online violate the privacy of those customers who give them access to their information in good faith. Cybersecurity administrators contend that organizations that distribute personal and private information without authorization violate fundamental human rights. The collection of sensitive personal data by cookies is widespread. Data collected using cookies are stored and used as the organization’s assets.
Cybersecurity and Big Data
Cybercrimes have become more complex as cybercriminals invest more money and technology into hiding their schemes and devising advanced technical systems to infiltrate targeted organizations and breach secure computer networks. The increased use of the internet continues to widen the risk of e-commerce. The major institutions impacted by cybercriminal strategies are banking systems, government-regulated documents, and social media platforms. Cybersecurity administrators reiterated that enhancing cybersecurity systems that protect critical information infrastructures is essential to each nation’s national security and economic well-being. The new frontier on the World Wide Web relates to online e-commerce and online activities to make the internet safer for users. However, the development of every new program comes with its share of code issues that make users’ information more vulnerable. In other words, the more technologically advanced, the more cybersecurity issues users face.
Many world governments and international organizations have recognized the complexity of the contemporary security reality. Therefore, cybersecurity threats are one of the highlights of the national security debate among cybersecurity experts, academic scholars, and https://www.cnn.com/videos/us/2022/10/05/mi-tallest-living-domestic-cat-world-record-affil-dnt-cprog-vpx.wdiv/video/playlists/atv-trending-videos/ s. This is essential because cyberspace is inseparable from the daily operations of a business, education, government, and the military. 
Cybersecurity Strategy
In the United States, many state governments have recently produced national cybersecurity strategies that emphasized forming public-private partnerships with cybersecurity experts to combat cybercrimes. The internet is an interconnected network system; therefore, counter cybersecurity strategies require collective actions. How a strategy is designed and organized has important implications for national security, including the defense against cyberattacks and malicious activities.
One of the reasons why cyberattacks are on the rise is the strong demand for patients’ medical records on the black market. Electronic health records (EHR) have greater value than financial records. A medical record fetches $50 on the black market, while a stolen Social Security number or credit card number could only fetch $
