# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 50 - Can My Information in LinkedIn Breach be Used for Identity Theft?
Yes, the information stolen can start the ball rolling for stealing your identity. All a scammer needs to begin is your email address. Then they can wage phishing or scam campaigns designed to fool you into providing the rest of the information they need. You may think you are dealing with your bank or some other reputable entity and happily log in or enter personal information; now, it is in the hands of the hackers. You have to be on alert always to stay safe from identity theft.
How to Protect Yourself against LinkedIn Data Breach
It seems like every week we hear of another data breach somewhere. Although it may seem impossible to protect your information, there are things you can do to stay safe.
Security Relevance Score: 13
Word Count: 2036
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Can My Information in LinkedIn Breach be Used for Identity Theft?
Yes, the information stolen can start the ball rolling for stealing your identity. All a scammer needs to begin is your email address. Then they can wage phishing or scam campaigns designed to fool you into providing the rest of the information they need. You may think you are dealing with your bank or some other reputable entity and happily log in or enter personal information; now, it is in the hands of the hackers. You have to be on alert always to stay safe from identity theft.
How to Protect Yourself against LinkedIn Data Breach
It seems like every week we hear of another data breach somewhere. Although it may seem impossible to protect your information, there are things you can do to stay safe.

Keep your computer and mobile devices updated with the latest software and security patches along with antivirus programs.
Run deep scans often and watch out for malware.
Be on alert for suspicious emails that ask you to verify your information or threaten that you may be locked out of your account. Those are phishing emails designed to trick you.
Change all your online passwords frequently and use a complex combination of letters, numbers, and symbols.

Discuss the following: What happen here? (1) Was security neglected? (2) Who is responsible? (3) How could the breach be avoided? (4) Was security properly funded? (5) Is management at fault? (6) Should the victims be compensated? (7) Will the incident harm the company’s reputation? (8) Will customers lose confidence in the organization because of the breach? (9) How can customers protect their sensitive data in these cases?
CASE 9
SYNIVERSE QUIETLY REVEALS 5-YEAR DATA BREACH
Source: Syniverse Quietly Reveals 5-Year Data Breach - Cyber Security Solutions, Compliance, and Consulting Services - IT Security (infoguardsecurity.com)
Syniverse, one of the most popular telecommunication companies, revealed in a September 27 SEC filing that their network security had been compromised. 
Syniverse has been in the field of providing network services for a long time and AT&T, T-Mobile, Verizon, and other telecommunication companies collaborate with Syniverse for messaging services. With traveling customers all over the world, Syniverse provides essential roaming services to other telecom companies.
More than 370 billion annual transactions are provided by Syniverse and the company has skilled board members, including former Verizon executive Dan Mead and former FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski.
Syniverse has been delivering telecom services ranging from signaling methods that authenticate the specification of customers to authorizing a suitable level of services.
Syniverse recently filed an SEC filing due to a merger with a public trading company called M3-Brigade Acquisition II Corporation. The acquisition would make Syniverse a public trading company as well and the initial enterprise value of this treaty was $2.85 billion.
Syniverse reported in the SEC filing that a certain person or organization tried to access their IT system. Investigation showed that their data had been compromised several times starting from May 2016 and the login access of about 235 customers had been jeopardized. 
Syniverse said that customers had been informed where required contractually, and all the necessary protocols had been taken care of. Syniverse also said that it had made sure to inform law enforcement officials and the company expects that its cyber insurance will cover a substantial portion of the expenses in investigating and responding to the incident.
A Syniverse representative said that they did not notice any disturbance in operations or customer data and the illegal activity had not been monetized. The company also said that it did not observe any activity that impacted its day-to-day operations. Syniverse further assured stakeholders that it could still run smoothly and was equipped for any future unpleasant activities.
Vice reported that the criminal entity that had breached Syniverse had access to metadata such as caller and receiver numbers. Metadata (a set of data that describes and gives information about other data) is used to summarize basic information regarding something such as the content of an SMS. It can indirectly provide information to hackers.
Syniverse, however, released a statement saying that they had rebooted their customers’ credentials. The company also said that it had reset the credentials of customers who were unaffected by the incident, making sure that no customer was left unchecked, and that now no further action was needed.
Syniverse concluded the statement by saying that they were going above and beyond to protect their system and their customers. They said that they are continuously communicating with their customers directly for any queries and information and the company does not foresee any public statement as the nature of the case was confidential. Further information will be revealed as investigations continue.
Discuss the following: What happen here? (1) Was security neglected? (2) Who is responsible? (3) How could the breach be avoided? (4) Was security properly funded? (5) Is management at fault? (6) Should the victims be compensated? (7) Will the incident harm the company’s reputation? (8) Will customers lose confidence in the organization because of the breach? (9) How can customers protect their sensitive data in these cases?
CASE 10
Amazon Data Breaches: Full Timeline Through 2022
Source: Amazon Data Breaches: Full Timeline Through 2022 (firewalltimes.com)
In June 2022, a former Amazon employee was convicted for her role in the 2019 Capital One breach. The hacker in question used her insider knowledge of to hack over 30 companies and illegally access the personal data of over 100 million people. She now faces up to 45 years in prison.
Otherwise, the most recent known Amazon data breach happened on October 6, 2021, when an unknown hacker leaked sensitive data pertaining to Twitch, a streaming service owned by Amazon. This leak included Twitch’s source code, streamers’ earnings numbers, and more, but does not appear to have compromised users’ login credentials or credit card information.
There have also been numerous breaches in Amazon Web Services (AWS) over the years, which you can read about in our article on AWS data breaches. Below, we will go into more detail on the full history of Amazon breaches, starting with the most recent.
June 2022: Former Amazon Employee Convicted for Capital One Breach
In June 2022, former Amazon employee Paige Thompson was convicted for her role in the 2019 Capital One breach. While working for Amazon Web Services, Thompson exploited her knowledge of cloud server vulnerabilities at Capital One and more than 30 other companies. All told, Thompson stole the personal information of over 100 million people, including names, dates-of-birth, and social security numbers.
The defense portrayed Thompson as an ethical hacker seeking to notify companies of vulnerabilities before bad actors could exploit them. The U.S. Department of Justice argued otherwise, noting that Thompson failed to notify the companies she breached, bragged about the incident on hacker forums under the alias “erratic,” and profited from the breach by installing crypto mining software on many of the servers she hacked. As assistant U.S. attorney Andrew Friedman put it in his closing arguments, “She wanted data, she wanted money, and she wanted to brag.”
After ten hours of deliberation, a Seattle jury found Thompson guilty of wire fraud, as well as five counts of unauthorized access to a protected computer and damaging a protected computer. The jury found her not guilty of access device fraud and aggravated identity theft. Thompson could face up to 45 years in prison.
Capital One does not seem to have been free of responsibility for the incident. Finding their security practices lacking, the Office of the Comptroller of Currency fined Capital One for $80 million, and the company paid out an additional $190 million settlement in a class action lawsuit.
October 2021: Hacker Leaks Twitch Data to 4chan
On October 6, 2021, there was a major data breach to Twitch, a streaming platform owned by Amazon. An unknown attacker posted 128 gigabytes of leaked files to a 4chan message board, including Twitch’s source code, earnings numbers for streamers, and more. Though the attacker has not yet been identified, in their 4chan post they stated an activist motive:
“Their community is also a disgusting toxic cesspool, so to foster more disruption and competition in the online video streaming space, we have completely pawned them.”
In a blog post, Twitch stated that this data was exposed due to an error in Twitch’s server configuration.
On October 15, Twitch reaffirmed that no passwords, login credentials, credit card numbers, or bank information was leaked in the attack. In the same blog post, Twitch stated that they were directly contacting those affected by the breach.
July 2021: EU Fines Amazon €746 Million Over GDPR Violations
In July 2021, the Luxembourg National Commission for Data Protection issued a 746 million euro fine to Amazon for allegedly violating the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). According to the Commission, Amazon mishandled personal data in violation of the legal standards set by the GDPR.
In response, Amazon asserted they would appeal the fine, saying that it was “without merit” and that there had been “no data breach.”
October 2020: Customer Email Address Leaked by Malicious Employees
For the second time in 2020, disgruntled Amazon employees released a number of Amazon customer email addresses to third parties voluntarily.
The employees responsible for the insider breach were fired. While Amazon did directly email any customers that may have had their email addresses distributed to a third party, it is not clear precisely how many customers were impacted by the incident.
As you will see, internal threats present a recurring problem at Amazon. Over and over again, Amazon employees have leaked customer data and proprietary information to outside parties.
September 2020: Six People Indicted in Scheme to Bribe Amazon Employees
In September of 2020, a grand jury in Washington indicted six people on charges of bribing Amazon employees to gain an unfair advantage in Amazon’s third-party marketplace. All six of the defendants had provided consulting services to Amazon sellers, and three had sold products of their own. Through bribery and fraud, these sellers illicitly obtained customer data, made attacks against competing sellers, and restored product listings that Amazon had previously taken down.
January 2020: Employees Share Customer Contact Info with Third Party
In January 2020, Amazon caught a group of employees sharing sensitive customer data with third parties. A number of customer email addresses and phone numbers were released, though it is not clear precisely how many. In response, Amazon fired the employees in question.
It’s unclear whether these two incidents were connected, and Amazon has not been forthcoming with greater detail.
September 2019: Amazon Japan Personal Data and Order Histories Exposed
In late-September 2019, Amazon Japan users found themselves able to view the order histories of other shoppers. Along with purchase details, shopper names and delivery addresses were also viewable.
It is not entirely clear how many users of the Japanese Amazon site were impacted by the issue. After the incident made the news, Amazon announced that it resolved the problem and had contacted customers about the issue.
November 2018: Amazon Uncovers Moles Working for Third-Party Seller
In November 2018, Amazon’s security division discovered that a third-party retailer known as Krasr had paid approximately $160,000 in bribes to Amazon employees. In exchange, they sabotaged Krasr’s competitors on Amazon’s marketplace.
Amazon identified and fired seven employees who had taken money from Krasr. They referred Krasr to the FBI, but it does not appear Krasr’s owner has been arrested or charged with any crimes.
November 2018: Customer Names and Email Addresses Exposed
Just two days before Black Friday in November 2018, Amazon announced a major data breach involving customer names and email addresses. The company stated that it reached out to impacted users but did not disclose the extent of the breach, which it described as a technical issue that led to the accidental posting of customers’ private information on the website.
September 2018: Employees Discovered Selling Customer Data
In September 2018, the Wall Street Journal reported that Amazon employees had been illicitly handing over customer data in exchange for bribes. Employees in both China and the United States reportedly sold this data to Chinese sellers, at prices ranging from $80 to $2,
