# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2011 - Another outstanding achievement of AI technology was the success of self-driving cars in the DARPA Grand Challenge competitions in the 2000s. Another remarkable breakthrough in AI technology is DARPA’s Cognitive Agent that learns and organizes (CALO), which led to the development of Apple Corporation Siri technology.
Apple Corporation introduced Siri technology as software that recognizes and processes natural languages. Siri technology can provide answers on request. Also, Siri can identify patterns and repetition from voice entries. The voice patterns recognized help to improve the performance of machine learning. As a result, machine learning provides remarkable insights and enhances decision-making. Tremendous interest in AI began in 2010, driven primarily by three interrelated factors:
Security Relevance Score: 2
Word Count: 1111
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Another outstanding achievement of AI technology was the success of self-driving cars in the DARPA Grand Challenge competitions in the 2000s. Another remarkable breakthrough in AI technology is DARPA’s Cognitive Agent that learns and organizes (CALO), which led to the development of Apple Corporation Siri technology.
Apple Corporation introduced Siri technology as software that recognizes and processes natural languages. Siri technology can provide answers on request. Also, Siri can identify patterns and repetition from voice entries. The voice patterns recognized help to improve the performance of machine learning. As a result, machine learning provides remarkable insights and enhances decision-making. Tremendous interest in AI began in 2010, driven primarily by three interrelated factors:

The availability of big data from sources including e-commerce, businesses, social media networks, and the sciences.
Governments that provided data, funding, and expertise improved machine learning technology.
The algorithms application enables supercomputer technology to adapt humanlike intelligence.

In 2014, Amazon LLC developed a digital device with AI technology named Alexa. Alexa is a smart intelligent device that responds to phrases. Alexa uses speech recognition and natural language processing to recognize and respond to different voice requests relatively accurately. The Alexa device is based on the technology of the internet of things. Thus, Alexa technology can be found in many kitchens and bedrooms and can be instructed to turn on and off digital devices, including lights. In addition, it can order products before inventory is depleted, announce the weather, play your favorite music, and be a personal assistant. Like Siri, recognizing voice patterns and repetitions in verbal communication enables the machine learning of Alexa. Every utterance exerts a speech recognizer system that has four features:

Idle
Recognizing
Busy
Expecting speech

Machine learning is a method of data analysis by an application that automatically enables systems to learn from human and environmental interactions. Indeed, machine learning is a form of AI that allows software programs to be more agile in their applications. AI is based on the idea that systems can be programmed to learn from data, identify patterns, and make decisions with relatively little human assistance.
AI has gained preeminence, performing many significant roles as:

Receptionists that answer telephones and take messages.
Robots that lift and carry heavy objects.
ATMs that dispense money and make payments.
Kiosks that check immigration status and process travel documents at national and international airports.
Narrow AI that applies to self-driving automobiles.

Many industries are investing in AI because of its ability to increase production and lower operating costs. AI has taken the place of many jobs because consumers love self-service. Self-service is quick, convenient, reliable, and efficient. AI is used widely in many routine activities such as chatbots, transferring money, banking online, and ordering popular modern transportation such as Uber and Lyft. AI can accurately calculate wait times and prices.
Artificial intelligence provides ease and improves the quality of life for modern society. For example, AI facial recognition technology helps users to find friends and acquaintances. Email technology uses AI to sort spam folders and marks mail for junk and inbox. Also, AI provides immense benefits to businesses by supporting different departments, such as production, administration, finance, marketing, and sales. AI technology is behind many processes like bookkeeping, automatic video postings on social media, post reminders, making calendars, setting appointments, and filtering requests.
In 2016, Google CEO Sundar Pichai expressed that machine learning constitutes a transformative process of rethinking everyday activities. Thus, machine learning is being thoughtfully applied across all products, including searches, ads, and YouTube. Remarkable progress has been made in the area of Narrow AI. Narrow AI relates to specific application areas, such as playing strategic games, language translation, self-driving vehicles, and image recognition. Whenever a user searches on Google, the information is stored in an application that helps to learn the user’s behavior from the users’ searches. The process is machine learning, otherwise referred to as machine intelligence. This application learns the users’ online habits and makes it easier for users to find what they need in future shopping or searches.
The problem that AI addresses is how to maintain a workforce with people when AI is faster and more productive than human skills. Humans and machines can work quickly and efficiently together because they support each other. However, many people are scared that AI will replace jobs. Seeing that machines have learned how to do specific tasks like image recognition, AI and machine learning have the potential to improve people’s lives by helping to solve the world’s greatest challenges and inefficiencies.
Problems Associated with AI Technology

The problem is AI is a tool with immense valuable tools that are redeveloped to help businesses achieve their core competencies. AI is also a powerful, dangerous weapon in modern warfare, such as drone strikes, where many innocent men, women, and children have lost their lives. Undoubtedly, AI increases efficiency. However, the downside is eliminating jobs that threaten to bring tremendous hardship to workers who AI is replacing. Many workers under the threat of replacement by AI are nearing the end of their careers and lack the motivation and skills to be retrained for technology-oriented positions. AI may increase inequality because younger workers may be easier to adapt to the retraining and replacement process than senior workforce members. In addition, the introduction of AI in some organizations may suppress wages.
Problems that are associated with AI:

Mass rehirings may not follow mass job replacements.
The retaining of senior workers may not be conducive for some seniors.
Wages depression and income disparity may raise the poverty level.
The lack of technical talents to support the wide use of AI systems.
The creation of an impersonal business sector.
Relating to machines when a personal problem needs to be solved is frustrating.
The quality of the decision in a machine-learning tool.
The explicit trust in AI technology.
The competition between AI and human intelligence.

Academic scholars have questioned the ability of AI in decision-making in terms of the decision-making process. In general, decision-making has many strategic steps. These steps include (a) identifying the problem to be solved or question to be answered, (b) gathering the pertinent information that relates to the matter, (c) identifying the alternative responses, (d) examining the data and supportive evidence, (e) choosing from among the alternative responses, (f) taking the appropriate action, and (g) reviewing the decision to ensure equity. Indeed, the decision framework required serious evaluation and consideration. However, giving that responsibility to a machine may have serious consequences. In many ways, taking human intelligence out of human life’s main processes may lead to degrading human initiative and cognitive development.
Bessen, J. (2018). AI and Jobs: the role of demand. doi: 10.3386/w
