# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2018 - While federal spending on cybersecurity has steadily increased, state and local governments struggle to find funds to allocate to cybersecurity.
Researchers stated that cybercrimes will continue to rise in the foreseeable future and may cost individuals and organizations more than $6 trillion annually by 2024. The projection is based on historical cybercrime data. Political conflicts and dramatic increases in hostility with Iran, Russia, and China, as well as organized crime, may contribute to greater hacking activities. According to some reports, ransomware attacks increased by approximately 350% in 2018. Cybersecurity experts projected businesses may suffer ransomware attacks every 11 seconds by 2024. This project is alarming; nevertheless, it helps organizations to be more vigilant with their cybersecurity protection management. Big data organizations are allocating huge budgets to ensure that critical operating data is secure. A business must maintain operating efficiency. Efficiency cannot be maintained in a cyberspace business environment without serious consideration for high-technology security systems. There must be a strategic plan for data loss and restoration.
Exercise Questions:
Security Relevance Score: 30
Word Count: 15773
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

While federal spending on cybersecurity has steadily increased, state and local governments struggle to find funds to allocate to cybersecurity.
Researchers stated that cybercrimes will continue to rise in the foreseeable future and may cost individuals and organizations more than $6 trillion annually by 2024. The projection is based on historical cybercrime data. Political conflicts and dramatic increases in hostility with Iran, Russia, and China, as well as organized crime, may contribute to greater hacking activities. According to some reports, ransomware attacks increased by approximately 350% in 2018. Cybersecurity experts projected businesses may suffer ransomware attacks every 11 seconds by 2024. This project is alarming; nevertheless, it helps organizations to be more vigilant with their cybersecurity protection management. Big data organizations are allocating huge budgets to ensure that critical operating data is secure. A business must maintain operating efficiency. Efficiency cannot be maintained in a cyberspace business environment without serious consideration for high-technology security systems. There must be a strategic plan for data loss and restoration.
Exercise Questions:

Cybersecurity is defined as the protection of computer systems and networks from the theft of or damage to their hardware, software, or electronic data, as well as from the disruption or misdirection of the services they provide. Who is responsible for cybersecurity in an organization?
Cyberattacks typically involve accessing, changing, or disrupting sensitive information to extract money from users’ accounts and interrupt normal business processes. How effective is a firewall in these circumstances?
Many companies have increased their emphasis on customer service through online product offerings. How does this approach increase the risk of identity theft?
Businesses have come to rely on technology to increase productivity to compete effectively in the global marketplace. But how effective is technology in increasing productivity?
This reliance on technology comes with the risk of losing critical operating data to the completion through hackers’ activities. Explain.
Technology increases efficiency in many areas of business product offerings. However, cybersecurity risk is present and can interfere with critical operating data. How?
Cybersecurity incidents cost firms 0.4% of their annual revenues, much lower than retail shrinkage of 1.3%. So should businesses worry about cybersecurity incidents? Provide a detailed answer.
Throughout this chapter, we examined the challenges businesses face in protecting their operation’s data. List and explain two challenges discussed in the chapter.
List and explain the five security risks discussed in the chapter.
Are the vulnerabilities occurring due to the magnitude of internet use considered an inherent risk?








CHAPTER SEVEN
The Utilization of Information Technology: Security and Measures
Introduction
The world was once considered a large place where information would take a long time to reach the recipient. Indeed, dissemination of information could take several months or even a year to get to the recipient. Information was sent by ships, buses, and other modes of available transportation that were destined for the information delivery point. Urgent messages were sent by telegrams and word of mouth. Sometimes, the correspondent would travel long distances to reach their recipients. Storing information properly was occasionally difficult; thus, valuable information was left vulnerable to destruction. Archeologists alluded that the greatest untapped source of information about the ancient world remains at the bottom of the Mediterranean Sea. Today, the same world has become a smaller place, so to speak, due to the emergence of the World Wide Web. The evolution of information technology has changed the way information is delivered and disseminated. Nowadays, a global digital network can share and store data in seconds. The evolution of information using information technology has created a more informed global society. Businesses can utilize information technology to provide better products and services than traditional means. Information technology may be defined as using systems such as computers and other technological devices for storing, retrieving, and disseminating information. Real-time access to information has reduced wait times to near zero.
The information revolution has placed information in the hands of people of all nations, cultures, and traditions. The internet provides ready and available access to a cache of information at the click of an electronic mouse or the touch of a screen. Big data organizations have provided a host of information of all types. For example, Google LLC, an American global technology company, has created a worldwide library with all the information that searchers or researchers could ever need. Within the realms of the worldwide information revolution, individuals can conduct a search on symptoms based on the individual’s feelings and find possible diagnoses without consulting a doctor. Furthermore, individuals can research and learn about potential health risks and take necessary precautions to avoid them. In addition, individuals have ready access to the latest fashions, food recipes, and entertainment. Furthermore, some public databases allow individuals to access personal information about themselves or even a lost loved one.
Record keeping and accessibility are in real time or near real time. Organizations such as universities, colleges, financial institutions, and healthcare systems can immediately provide a person with the valuable information requested. However, the availability and dissemination of information on a wide scale expose the information to cybersecurity risks. Therefore, information custodians must take all necessary steps to ensure that private and sensitive data are safe. Data security allows organizations to operate efficiently as networks are protected from hackers who could shut down an operation or corrupt files, resulting in delays and frustrations.
Information technology helps businesses to collaborate and share resources and, thus, reduce operation costs. Furthermore, sharing information allows businesses to provide customers with a wider variety of products and services and a more delightful experience. Although sharing information among vendors increases efficiency, it could compromise the operational data of the sharing organization due to weak or inadequate cybersecurity systems among one or more collaborators. Businesses collaborating on an interconnecting network should work with one cybersecurity management team to ensure seamless cybersecurity performance. A unified cybersecurity management system among business collaborators may reduce the alliance’s weak points and make it difficult for hackers to find vulnerabilities in their security systems. To utilize information technology effectively, businesses should promote information safety among their customers by offering them incentives and firewall assistance. Organizations’ management should know that a customer could be a weak link to cybersecurity failures. For example, when hackers hack into a corporate customer’s bank account and steal a significant amount of money, that is a large breach for the bank. That news could impact the bank negatively and may even lead to diminishing public confidence.
Background of the Utilization of IT and Security Measures
One of the first forms of information dissemination was a system known as petroglyphs, which is the carving of languages on rocks. The ancients used petroglyphs to tell stories, mapped terrains, and kept livestock accounts. As knowledge evolved, an alphabet system was developed. The continued evolution of information led to the development of writing and writing tools such as paper and pens. From 1450 to 1840, information dissemination evolved into the mechanical stage.
The mechanical stage created the framework for the emergence of digital technology. Thus, the development of useful adding and writing tools, such as calculators and typewriters. Further development of the information dissemination systems led to electromechanical systems, which set the foundation for the telecommunication system. It includes telephones and radios. Information technology continued to advance rapidly in creating digital computer systems and network connectivity, which resulted in the formation of the World Wide Web.
There was no need for passwords during the early stages of information technology. The only form of security measures necessary was safely securing your information system with locks and keys. As interconnectivity became more common and information became more exposed, organizations decided to add passwords to restrict access to essential data. In addition to passwords, organizations implemented firewall safety measures, which ensured that stored data was protected, given the growth of stored information on organizational systems. However, by the 1970s, a new threat was developed that required more drastic measures. This new threat was known as hacking done by computer hackers. Hackers were a new type of computer criminal who stole information from companies by invading computer systems that were not secured.
In the 1990s came the internet enlightenment; thus, the public use of the internet increased drastically. However, the extensive use of the internet came with great threats from organized crime. Hence, information security developers developed firewalls to protect individuals’ and organizations’ data from remote access by hackers. Firewalls were critical as people began to use their personal information to conduct online transactions. Criminal hackers saw the abundance of transactional information online as rich sources of illegal revenues. Hackers then developed malware to attack and steal information from computer users. Thus, to protect sensitive data from hackers, firewalls and antivirus programs were developed and installed as a defense against hackers. National governments have intervened and established serious measures such as jail time and hefty fines to reduce the attacks on information technology systems. However, criminal hackers continue to steal sensitive data and trade it on the dark web despite law enforcement.
Problems and Challenges of IT Utilization and Security 
Information technology (IT) refers to developing, maintaining, and using computers, software, and network systems to process and disseminate information. The IT process involves collecting, processing, and distributing data. The maintenance of information security has become complex as the technology with IT systems escalates. Thus, the challenges to developing and establishing fortified security measures to protect information systems and infrastructure remain the primary focus of cybersecurity management. In addition, the transitions from traditional to e-transactions has resulted in the development of large customer databases. The management of these databases add a new burden on organizations to keep the data secure from unauthorized access.
Implementing tight security protocols to protect consumers’ privacy is an absolute necessity and fiduciary responsibility of organizations. Information technology breaches affected many retailers, including Home Depot, Sally Beauty Supply, Neiman Marcus, and Michaels. Retailers continue to revise their systems for vulnerabilities and add layers of security systems to guard against data breaches. As a result, data protection has become a costly undertaking for businesses.
The costs of data breaches range from lost hardware and software network disruptions, and data. Information technology cybersecurity requires data breach prevention mechanisms such as site monitoring systems that manage transaction traffic and encrypt with SSL. Organizations’ cybersecurity officials should be vigilant, as data breaches may take several months before they are discovered. When a data breach is discovered, the damage is already done in many cases.
Within the sphere of information technology, a significant challenge is how to detect and arrest viruses. Viruses play a major role in aiding information breaches by corrupting or transferring files through hidden programs. As previously mentioned, Trojan viruses are still effective even though they are known. Trojan viruses are effective because they do not affect organizations’ operating systems directly. Instead, they serve as a backdoor method that enables hackers to gain authorization access to essential information assets. For example, the Trojan virus allows a hacker to use the infection to expose a user’s credit and debit card information. It can destroy a computer’s boot records, file tables, and user data, thus, rendering the computer system useless. A Trojan Horse is dangerous because it can be installed and compromise the host security systems of a computer system when the computer is not occupied. Trojan viruses are deceptive. They will claim to remove viruses, whereas the intent is to install new viruses on your computer systems. Unsuspecting users tend to be tricked into opening Trojan files because they appear to be legitimate software from credible sources.
Problems and Challenges with Security Measures
In today’s business environment, the race for competitive advantages is a goal of corporate businesses. The ability to provide interconnectivity, share resources with other organizations, and integrate their business activities have become commonplace. Therefore, taking advantage of the competitive process requires businesses to apply advanced information technology. Hence, information technology has changed to adapt to the new role of overall business engagements. As a result, information technology is the driving force behind every facet of an organization’s business competencies.
The relevance of information technology in business organizations is seen in the tremendous growth of online operations. Information technology supports sales, customer service, marketing, production, and finances. Information technology is essential to all operations, but many people who use it have little or no knowledge of how it functions. If employees have a more informed knowledge of information technology, they would also understand the importance of cybersecurity. 
Using secure information technology could help users keep information safe from cyberattacks. The reason for the security of SSL is to prevent large-scale problems with data breaches. Large-scale data breaches could occur when groups of hackers can use robust decryption algorithms to access organizations’ secure networks. Cyberthieves have been able to access data from companies by using information technology to support their criminal endeavors. Within the supply chain industry, information technology has revolutionized the industry and created enterprise systems that lead to tremendous economic benefits. The integration process allowed interfirm electronic data exchange, which sped up processes. The use of IT has led to greater productivity and utilization of space. Cybersecurity is the number one goal for organizations sharing pertinent business information.
The vulnerability of SQL injection is well understood. Therefore, cybersecurity experts have warned retailers to take a proactive stance. It should be noted that the continuing exposure of web-facing applications has made SQL the most common form of cybersecurity failure of many websites. In addition, weak data encryption systems and chatbots have made information technology security on internet network systems vulnerable to malicious actions.
The Purpose of Analyzing Cybersecurity Measures
Information technology’s primary purpose is processing, storing, and distributing data. The shift in global interactions has increased the need for information technology. Thus, information technology has become vital to social and business transactions. For example, IT plays a significant role in global corporations that maintain mainframe systems and database management that assist small- and medium-sized businesses. One of the primary reasons for using information technology is to improve business performance and protect information from unauthorized users. There are many ways to utilize information technology, such as interoffice communication, suppliers’ interactions, and customer relations management. Furthermore, information technology manages business processes for effective product deliveries.
Email is the fastest and easiest communication method between management, employees, suppliers, and clients. Thus, email was one of the early communication tools of the internet that allowed a direct and inexpensive form of communication. Several new communications systems have emerged in the past two decades, allowing workers to communicate via live chats, online meeting tools, and videoconferencing. In addition, the information that emails contain is a significant asset to companies. Useful and effective communication helps to improve collaboration and increase efficiency. Also, the smooth transfer of data content is critical for expert systems.
Additionally, information technology aid in the storage and management of data systems. IT helps to reduce the size of record keeping, office space, and mailing costs. IT allows organizations to store data content on digital filing systems instead of in large filing cabinets, thus enabling instant accessibility by authorized users. Owing to IT, organizations can process, store, and maintain vast amounts of data that increase business competencies. Additionally, information technology is used to analyze sales data and manage expenses. As a result, companies can track profits over time and maximize investment returns while refining their strategies. IT gives managers the tools to track sales daily, thus, allowing them to respond to low productivity by implementing corrective measures immediately.
By and large, customer relations are managed through databases that record complaints and solutions. Customer call centers are equipped with technology to support representatives who respond to customers. Inquiries regarding customers’ purchases, such as viewing shipping information, are in the customers’ real-time system. Customers are considered one of the life sources of an organization. As a result, organizations are ensuring that customers are treated with priority. Furthermore, organizations are making greater efforts to develop relationships with their customers as relationship transfers into customer loyalty. Customers who feel that the business they engage with cares about them will tend to do repeat business with them. Therefore, many organizations have developed a new branch of operations known as customer care service. It is staffed by an experienced manager who understands the product and the human value of a customer.
Theory, Approach, and Application 
Information technology roles in modern businesses have resulted in profits for big data organizations. Experts suggest that IT is the most powerful tool of contemporary entrepreneurship growth and the driver of business economic dynamics. Hence, cybersecurity is of uttermost importance. IT is considered the primary asset of online commerce. However, the use of technology continues to grow, and users’ awareness of cyber dangers has not kept pace. Ordinary users are unwilling to invest the time and money to maintain online safety. Every weak link exposes other users, including those who maintain cybersecurity vigilance.
The credentials and sensitive information available to employees and suppliers could pose a high-magnitude danger to organizations if not adequately secured. The danger is increased if an employee resigns and seeks revenge against the employer’s network system. A breach of one organization could put other firms’ information at risk. In addition, third-party entities with interconnections with an organization that suffers a breach could lose valuable information for their clients and vendors. Therefore, extreme precautions must be taken to prevent any form of data compromise by any member of interlinked entities.
Since data moves across individuals, organizations, and departments, the seamless process can only be secure by adherence to operating policies. Notwithstanding, even with some of the best guidelines and precautions, identity theft may occur. An anonymous survey by the Ponemon Institute and Symantec Corp. revealed that over 50% of participants admitted that they had taken sensitive business documents with them when leaving a company. This is a devastating revelation considering that these cybersecurity professionals worked for companies producing information-security software.
Theory, Approach, and Application Continues
Information technology is considered the root and branch of business operations. By implementing and maintaining proper information systems, a business can thrive economically. Also, the productive use of information technology helps businesses protect their customers’ valuable data and companies’ trade secrets. The neglect to implement and maintain proper systems could expose businesses to malicious attacks that could jeopardize the operational infrastructure of the business. Maintaining trust between customers is imperative; a company strives and achieves customer loyalty when customers are confident that their sensitive information is secured.
Cybersecurity preventative and regular maintenance are quintessential to all phases of operations management strategic decisions. Keeping valuable data secure from malicious hackers remains the goal of all cybersecurity management professionals. Thus, processes must be in place to ensure the safety of all users involved with the business and be the hallmark modus operandi. In addition, operations managers within a company must ensure that operating systems remain reliable and stable. Therefore, preventive measures must be taken to realize the highest production level. One of the most essential questions in the process is … Where does your business stand in terms of system security at the present moment?
Consistent assessment tests are an important tool that will help managers determine their security status. Assessment tests should be done quarterly so any developing issue can be resolved before it causes problems. A security needs assessment may be done by identifying, harvesting, justifying, and selecting areas of concern that could be compromised. Assessment helps to identify strengths and weaknesses. When an assessment is completed, the manager should get a sense of the security status, which will help them to make informed decisions. In addition, a needs assessment allows businesses to determine the resources needed to implement training and relevant security measures. Identifying weak points in the organizational operations system is necessary for building a safe environment for all users. Corporate leadership should act swiftly to allocate resources for training initiatives and additional security apparatuses based on the assessment analysis. 
According to a study by Gartner, 51 million US internet users have identified receiving emails linked to phishing scams. In addition, about 2 million of them have been tricked into giving away sensitive information to scammers. Using manipulation, cyberscammers could use infiltrators to gain access to credentials from users with fake website pages and stolen account authentication prompts.
Training provides educational awareness. By delivering training seminars on detecting cybersecurity and other common hacking attempts, individuals and organizations will be better equipped to overcome invaders’ tactics. Properly maintained systems help managers to focus on production and profits. Inefficiencies create waste and burden production outputs. Therefore, managers must plan to tackle inefficiencies, allocate needed resources, and boost secure production.
A common misconception about preventative maintenance is that it is expensive. Regular maintenance is always cheaper than fixing a system when it breaks down. Breakdowns occur less often when preventive maintenance is followed. Thus, preventative maintenance minimizes downtime and maximizes productivity. Through proper training and security defense implementations, operations managers can reduce the number of malicious attacks directed at their operations system and quickly eliminate potential threats.
The Review of Endless Data Stream
The continuous flow of information through millions of data channels for varying use suggests no end to the information stream. The consistent flow of information is seen in the daily transactional activities for businesses and social interactions. The impact of technology is felt in aspects of current operations. In modern society, almost every system is driven by some form of data. The advanced flow of information has affected residential home security and home appliances. Indeed, the inordinate flow of information knows no boundaries.
Undoubtedly, the endless flow of information has fueled the source of modern entrepreneurship, sustained the growth of economic dynamics, and empowered the knowledge-based economy. The development of touch screen features has caused the adaptation of information technology to be more pervasive, as typing is no longer a deterrent. The refining of IT creates an escalation in usage. People who once shied away from technology use now find technology easy and helpful.
Ethical Challenges
In a court case in 2013, it was discovered that an employee who resigned from his job copied 763 files of sensitive company secrets to use at his new job. The case is as follows: The two companies were developers of online games and competing in the same market. An employee who left Zynga to join Kixeye copied sensitive company secrets and took them with him to use at his new job, which certainly would undermine the competitiveness of his former employer. The matter came to light and was taken to court. When the lawsuit was settled, the employee, Alan Patmore, apologized for copying and stealing confidential and unauthorized information from Zynga. Sometimes, the greatest cybersecurity threat is from internal sources.
In these instances, the most important thing is for companies to determine what data they are trying to protect and consider how vulnerable it could be. In many cases, the worst-case scenario is not considered. A cybersecurity analyst at CERT Insider Carnegie Mellon University’s Software Engineering Institute suggested that the most sensitive information is unknowingly scattered amongst various business units and departments without the realization the information could be stolen.
Digitalization of Information
The digitalization of information allows individual personal data easy tracking access. Today, an individual can be monitored by a cellular phone location monitor, credit card transactions, metro cards, debit card activities, and street surveillance. In addition, business organizations monitor customers’ purchase choices, vacation travel, and related activities for marketing purposes. Big data firms are trading personal data to marketers, flooding customers’ emails with ads and sales invitations. Many big data companies’ business models are based on the sale and acquisition of customers’ personal data. Although it is illegal to monitor and track customers’ private activities, many firms have engaged in the practice without regard for personal privacy laws.
Millennials Generation or Gen Y
The millennial generation, the demographic cohort born between 1981 and 1996, tends to be information-friendly and technology-savvy. Thus, millennials depend on information-oriented systems for most of their daily transactions. Millennials prefer to have information available instantly at their fingertips. Millennials who have entered the workforce have ignored many risks associated with connecting privately owned devices on their job networks. Researchers found that Gen Y posed a major challenge to managers from older generations, mainly due to the generation gap and value systems. Millennials consider the use of their privately owned devices at work as a necessity, whereas corporate police forbid the use of privately owned devices during work hours. Research showed that millennials tend to focus on their personal benefits and ignore the risks that their actions may cost the company in the event of a breach. Millennials tend to show concern about risk if it threatens them directly. Big data companies seek to harvest information from valuable sources that can be readily monetized.
The data and resources that big data organizations want to remain free and accessible are customers’ personal data. Storing and consent policies generally got pushed aside in the search for monetized information assets. Despite the greed of big data corporations, many of them still value customers’ privacies … to some degree. The lack of ethical guidelines is still a major issue plaguing the information technology industry.
The lack of ethical teachings and practices in the information technology business tend to encourage dishonest practices among the major players, including some social network organizations. Therefore, it is necessary to ask some pertinent questions. (1) Do privacy violations reach an ethical crisis? (2) Who is responsible for protecting personal private data used in e-commerce? (3) Who is accountable to the injured party when there is a breach?
The above questions should be answered frankly, and the government may be responsible for protecting its citizens from greedy profiteers. The business model that allows companies to collect and use personal data for profit is entirely legal. However, it is not ethical. It is unrealistic to expect profit-seeking companies to avoid profitable and legal (although unethical) business models; hence, government regulation is the remedy to curb illegal and corrupt practices.
If society finds surveillance business models offensive, they should seek the solution through public policy. However, it should be noted that what is legal may not be ethical. Keep in mind that laws are insufficient when they fail to include ethics. The information technology industry has successfully lobbied for decades against any attempt to regulate IT public policy under the guise that regulation interferes with innovative decisions.
Governments are not trying to regulate the information technology industry, although it is a problematic concern for many users because regulations may slow down the progress of innovations. Regulation opposers argued that personal data and general computer-related information are already protected. Therefore, any additional laws will largely burden the ability of IT experts to explore and develop more extraordinary technological feats. In addition, further regulations may not work in a global information environment.
As we have seen, the ability to regulate the IT sector may prove to be a costly venture, given the magnitude of the system. Also, the global nature of IT seems to indicate that there would be severe difficulties in determining the applicable jurisdiction for international regulations. Surveillance business models may be offensive and harmful to the owner of personal data. Hence, data collected and used without the owner’s authorization is an abuse of the owner’s right to the information. The argument that innovation will be stifled if the IT industry establishes a framework of laws and ethics is unfounded and may be an attempt to manipulate the regulators.
It is alarming that all the relevant information about people, nature, business, politics, academics, and worldviews is on the World Wide Web. Hence, the web is a vast storage space for all active and nonactive information. More than 3.5 billion people currently possess smartphones. Smartphones are mobile storage devices containing large volumes of owners’ personal information. The pervasiveness of modern technology has expanded beyond domestic use to national security. Indeed, technology is an integral part of national governments’ war machines. Technology is used for drone strikes on enemy territory, as has been well documented. With the escalation of technology, storage and access protocols have become primary factors of consideration. Understanding the appropriate utilization of information technology and the need for security and appropriate measures are relevant.
The overall goal of information technology is to increase the efficient flow of information and enhance communications. Within these overarching goals, there are other goals, such as the goal for security information technology. Information security increases availability, assured integrity, sustained confidentiality and demands accountability. A secure system works well in supporting services and providing reliable processes of information resources. Additionally, supporting services engage cryptographic key management and security administration.
Information technology strives to secure data and reduce threats. However, the past decades have seen an increased dependency on technology. As society gravitates to the use of technology, the vulnerability rate increases. A comprehensive approach toward safety is rooted in the design of every new gadget; nevertheless, users should be vigilant and adopt a proactive approach to their own data safety. Awareness and education are critical factors to data safety. Therefore, the need for an informed internet society has become urgent.
Although laws and regulations are desirable, the people awareness component is especially significant. Security measurements that enforce protocols, fine violators, or deny access may help to create a safer online experience for users. An organization may experience efficient and effective operations with the correct security measures. However, reduced government intervention allows for greater risk as corporations tend to put profits over security. Therefore, online users must hold the organization accountable they are doing business with. This can be done by publicizing unethical practices and using the rating systems available for corporate online abusers.
The emergence of the information age business environment requires competitiveness, which relies on the ability of multiple organizations to synchronize and integrate their business systems and processes to leverage economic benefits. As a result, firms are adopting advanced information technological systems that work seamlessly to take advantage of the competitive edge. Many organizations’ leaders have found that their organizations operate at their optimum levels by utilizing information technology.
A survey done by Wensing, M. et al. in 2019 among primary care physician trainees, revealed that physicians need more training and support to adequately utilize the technological features designed on equipment for patient care. Although they use information systems daily, many physicians do not have competent knowledge of the techniques they work with. Specific training would help them protect patients’ private information.
Information Technology and Online Education—COVID-19 Perspective
Before the COVID-19 pandemic, some academic leaders’ higher educational institutions scoffed at online learning. They purported that online education was poorly valued and could not match in-class instruction. However, since the pandemic, all higher education systems have transferred their programs online to assist their students. There is no further dispute about online education’s quality and product delivery, as students are graduating by the thousands from higher education institutions with every type of degree. Indeed, IT prevented the disruption of higher education. Higher education systems utilize IT and have been making significant progress. Without IT, higher education would have come to a screeching halt as snail mail would be too slow to facilitate the timeliness and efficiency required by higher education.
IT affords students of higher learning to work part-time or full-time while still attaining their educational goals. In addition, technology enables professors to lecture students in a virtual classroom. Online classrooms are the new phenomenon that has been globalized because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Students and professors may be reluctant to return to the old tradition when the pandemic passes as they have become accustomed to the new normal. Although online learning is the new normal, some underlying issues contribute to faculty members’ reluctance to use technology in the classrooms.
Some faculty members are reluctant because of the lack of institutional support for faculty development and training. Moreover, the absence of reliable and robust technological support causes many faculty members to stumble as they try to adapt to the new paradigm. Hence, faculty members must acquire relevant IT knowledge for professional and educational delivery. However, despite the challenges faculty face, the benefits of online instruction create accessibility for students and professors in terms of convenience.
Cybersecurity must be paramount to maximize the benefit of information technology. Users of IT can thrive in a safe environment if IT users are willing to invest in their own safety. Safeguards must be implemented to achieve the goal of data security and, by extension, users’ assurance. Some literature revealed that if users want to gain information security, they should engage in activities that support privacy legislation, policy development, security measures, transaction management, organizational structures, and protocol implementation commitments. The successful implementation of information security management systems may lead to productive output, safer operations, and data security.
Achieving success in information technology involves more than security management. Indeed, it involves a synergistic and strategic use of resources to help businesses gain a competitive advantage by utilizing their core competencies. One of the components of competitive advantages can be found in the supply chain systems using the successful implementation of enterprise technology systems. Integration’s underlying benefits are increased efficiency and responsiveness in service delivery. In addition, information technology sets the foundation for effective collaboration and sharing of information resources to identify shifts in the marketplace. Thus, management can take appropriate actions such as moving facilities, changing suppliers, and outsourcing production or service divisions to achieve competitive advantages.
Information technology applications in hospitality and tourism revealed how hospitality industries use information technology to reduce costs, improve service quality, and improve customer service. Information technology helps companies and organizations make strategic business decisions that enhance the company’s growth. Also, the increase in technological advancements made adaptive processes easier. Thus, companies can make changes to stay ahead of their competition. In addition, many hotels and resorts rely on information technology for marketing and finding new customers.
Five Stages of Consumer Purchases
Extant literature suggested five stages that consumers will go through before making their purchases: (1) recognition, (2) information search, (3) evolution of alternatives, (4) purchase decision, and (5) post-purchase behavior. An understanding of the purchase decision stages of consumer purchases could help business owners design strategies to capture customers’ attention and lead to purchase decisions. Knowledge of consumer behavior could be an excellent asset for businesses that seek to expand their market shares. Additionally, consumer knowledge may help marketing managers formulate strategies that could optimize their search engines and customize their websites to their advantage. Indeed, IT has made marketing effective and efficient; also, social media networks help reduce the cost for companies taking advantage of free publicity. Revenue stream may increase with more visibility. Companies can position themselves to offer the product or service that customers need.
The increase in scientific research and progress has shifted the technological development scale. Thus, individuals and organizations are trying to keep pace with the rapid turnover of technological advances. Information technology has shaped the way modern society interacts. Regarding businesses, technology is the means used for the acquisition of customers. For researchers, it is the method used to develop new ideas and products. The information system has changed the way businesses work together and compete against each other. Information technology is the fundamental framework to connect integrated systems and protect them from cyber invaders. Thus, it enhances competitive advantages and scale operations. The effective use of information technology creates new businesses and reduces business failures.
Electronic gadgets have created immense ease for modern society. The easy-button concept has transformed the burden to ease. Manual work has been replaced by electronic systems that are made with artificial intelligence. Even though IT has helped individuals and companies in many ways, the impact of data breaches that has plagued many companies still lingers and casts negative emotions on those who have suffered injuries. Cybersecurity threats are perhaps the most common threat businesses face today.
The five most critical threats identified by scholars are (1) personnel and administrative errors, (2) network misconfiguration, (3) hardware malfunctions, (4) software leaks, and (5) environmental conditions and physical security damage. Once the threat is identified, it is the responsibility of the cybersecurity team to establish appropriate strategic steps to counteract them. For example, management may consider the following strategic steps:

Cybersecurity management teams should identify the different types of threats.
Research the threats.
Compile a list of potential threats.
Assign a safeguard to each step. A safeguard is a protection/prevention strategy.
Sample the threat; that is, test the magnitude of the threat.
Assign the security analysis and record the concern of each threat. Each threat event should be labeled appropriately.

With the internet’s expanded interconnectivity and global accessibility, the chance of an individual or an organization suffering a cyberattack is highly likely. In fact, most users’ private and personal information is readily accessible for free or for a fee.
Limitations of IT Cybersecurity Measures
It is important to reiterate that every business has a strong reliance on information technology. The modern business environment has evolved, so companies cannot function effectively without technological tools. As a result, it is difficult for a business to make any significant progress without paying serious attention to cybersecurity. Cybercrimes are rampant, and cyberthieves are finding new ways to evade law enforcement. One of the difficulties law enforcement has with apprehending and prosecuting cybercriminals is that they operate on the dark web. The dark web of cyberspace is capable of trackless activities. In some cases, law enforcement has relied on assumptions when searching for cyberthieves rather than facts.
Indeed, there are laws protecting information technology; however, national governments have varying political interests that interfere with establishing international legislation that would effectively help apprehend cybercriminals. In fact, some foreign governments engage in cybercriminal activities. In addition, many countries in the world practice cyber espionage. Thus, the motivation to enact a global legislation that would have legal and prosecuting powers is weak. For the most part, the laws enacted to protect cyberspace are done by individual countries; thus, the law has no jurisdiction to prosecute foreign hackers. As previously mentioned in the chapter, the lack of ethics in cyberspace has contributed largely to cybercrimes. One of the limitations cybersecurity faces is the advanced skills possessed by the members of the cybercrime networks.
Limitations exist with the inability to avoid modifications and tampering with information assets by employees and consultants. It is difficult to monitor every file in circulation in a work setting to prevent criminals from unauthorized access. Fabrication attacks that generate data and distort communications are not easily detected. Additionally, leaks in information technology systems are always patched, creating loophole access. Hackers are knowledgeable about loopholes and generally waste no time exploiting them.
Weaknesses and risks exist in every system that present some level of vulnerability. No organization has sufficient resources to prevent every possible attack. The large quantity of electronic apparatus as well as hardware and software have impaired security. Limitations exist with the erecting of fences, locks, gates, guards, and cameras. Even those appointed to manage the process break the rules, violate the laws, override policies, and fail to follow procedures. Notwithstanding the limitations, it is essential to express that the information system is relatively safe, and most users have not suffered any serious attacks.
Chapter Summary
Regulation opposers contended that users’ sensitive data are generally computer-related-based and are already protected. The law they are referring to is largely outdated and does not address specifics affecting online users. Furthermore, some of the regulations of these existing laws are very vague and leave wide opening gaps that are exploitable. In many cases, there is an enforcement power. In addition, many of these regulations are localized and confined to world regions.
Getting additional specific data handling, privacy, and security regulations that work in a global economy may be challenging to implement and costly. Still, it may be the only solution to this problem. This is because many modern-day business services are global in today’s digital age, and it can be challenging to determine the applicable jurisdictions. One thing to be agreed on is that when regulations and policies are created, they must be crafted carefully to keep and continue to encourage innovation. If innovation is stifled, the world will be adversely affected. Innovation is key to the world’s development. However, cybersecurity is of utmost importance. Thus, business leaders should allocate a sensible budget to protect their information assets. 
Exercise Questions:

Information technology helps businesses collaborate and share resources and, thus, reduce operation costs. Provide examples of how this may occur.
The sharing of information allows businesses to provide customers with a broader variety of products and services and a more delightful experience. Explain how.
How could sharing information among vendors, although with increased efficiency, compromise the operating information?
Why is it recommended that businesses collaborating on an interconnecting network use only one cybersecurity management team?
Why is it a valid argument that a unified cybersecurity management system among business collaborators may reduce the weak point in the alliance?
Why is safety a priority for businesses to utilize information technology effectively?
How does providing a free firewall to customers increase an organization’s data security?
How could a data breach impact the reputation of a business?
In a 2013 court case, it was discovered that an employee who resigned from his job copied 763 files of sensitive company secrets to be used at his new job. Discuss the ethical and cybersecurity issues involved in this incident. Explain the ethical violations.
A cybersecurity analyst at CERT Insider Carnegie Mellon University’s Software Engineering Institute suggested that the most sensitive information is unknowingly scattered among various business units and departments without the realization the information could be stolen. So how can organizations effectively secure these data?








CHAPTER EIGHT
The Global Dangers of Computer and Cyber Viruses and Their Impact on Businesses
Introduction

In the twenty-first century, the complexity of modern systems requires constant oversight, especially on innovations. New innovative designs intended to advance human welfare may also jeopardize privacy due to the large volume of unprotected data on the World Wide Web. The increase in dangerous practices in cyberspace can potentially expose companies to the risk of lawsuits and intellectual property losses. In addition, the threat of cyber viruses loom over the head of every internet user. The freedom of clicking on a link has disappeared, and users should only click on links when they receive a notice by a phone call or chat.
Three dangers that online users, including sovereign nations, face are as follows:

Sabotage; this could be internal as well as external. Sabotage could cripple critical communication systems.
Electronic espionage (unauthorized access of computer networks via the use of computer viruses) by enemy nations.
Attacks on national infrastructure by malicious actors.

These dangers are cyber warfare intended to undermine national security or engage in unfair competition. There are several reasons why attackers strike, but mainly for financial gain or political benefits. In 2020, Lewis University conducted research that sheds considerable light on the Russian Business Network (RBN). The study reiterated that the network was using malware for identity theft. The researchers found that a virus that the Russians developed around 2007, known as Storm Worm, was running on approximately 1 million computers, thus, sending millions of infected emails daily. By 2008, storm worm cyberattacks advanced from personal computers to government institutions.
On August 27, 2008, NASA reported that a worm virus had infected laptops in the International Space Station. By November 2008, the Pentagon said that suspected Russian hackers had hacked its computer network. The lack of robust cybersecurity management systems in these entities has exposed the US’s important government agencies. Certainly, new and increasing threats such as electronic espionage require a renewed sense of vigilance. This awareness is vital for users to know that if hackers could attack powerful government agencies, then individuals and SMEs should be extra careful.
Background of Cyber Viruses and Their Impact
The two main types of cyberthreats are viruses and worms. A computer virus is a code capable of copying and distributing itself through a targeted computer or network system with detrimental effects such as corrupting and destroying files. A computer worm is a destructive mechanism sent to targeted networks to disrupt or damage the secure data of the target. Both viruses and worms are sent out into cyberspace to attack and disrupt information systems. Criminal hackers deliberately engage in these actions to access, destroy, alter, collect, disrupt, and undermine the targeted computer systems or networks. Cyber viruses and worms constantly target business systems running on Microsoft Windows. Microsoft Windows is the most popular graphical operating system in many businesses and digital applications worldwide. Viruses are used to facilitate data breaches.
Four typical cyber mishaps that require vigilance are data breaches, security evasion, privacy invasion, and data skimming. (1) Data breaches are unauthorized access to confidential and sensitive information. (2) Security evasions use evasive methods to infiltrate and attack an organization’s network system. (3) Privacy invasions are the access and use of consumer information without consent. (4) Data skimming is an illegal practice by cybercriminals to capture card information. Indeed, data breaches are, by and large, the commonest of all reported cyberattacks. Cybercriminals’ motives for these illegal activities are primarily financial gain and to intimidate geopolitical opponents. Cybercriminals are generally aware of vulnerable targets; thus, their efforts are likely to be successful.
Cyberattacks primarily target small businesses because of their low cybersecurity budgets. Specifically, small business owners tend to be lax about cybersecurity protocols. Hackers know they can use small businesses as third-party vendors’ access to large organizations’ entities, such as government agencies, through their access portals. Cybercriminals target businesses based on their projection of the quality of data assets they can glean. The increasing e-commerce transactions have created opportunities for lucrative illegal data mining. As a result, cybersecurity managers have increased their strategies and implemented cybersecurity systems that detect cybercriminal attempts at the organization’s networks.
Cyberattacks are one of the biggest concerns of big data and financial institutions’ leadership, as well as their cybersecurity management teams. Cybersecurity risks present corporate worries as financial assets exist under constant threats of being stolen. Financial institutions are particularly vulnerable because of the critical role they play in monetary transactions.
Finally, as of 2019, the estimated total costs of cybersecurity events stand at approximately $8.5 billion annually. Experts suggested that the typical cost of a data breach is roughly $200,000, a drastic reduction from past cyberbreach events. Romanosky (2019) reported that cyber incidents cost firms only 0.4% of their annual revenues, which is lower than retail shrinkage of 1.3%. Online fraud is 0.9%, and the overall rates of corruption, financial misstatements, and billing fraud is 5%.
Analysis of the Global Danger 
The problem with cybersecurity is identifying the source of computer and cyber viruses. Cybersecurity experts found it a daunting task to eliminate every existing cyberthreat due to their nature of hidden attributes and frequency. Additionally, the persevering efforts of hackers made detection and elimination virtually impossible. Furthermore, the expansion of e-commerce, which consists of a large volume of electronic transactions, increases the impossibility of eliminating cyber viruses. For many years, cyberattacks have been causing detrimental effects on organizations linked to the World Wide Web. However, the good news is that recent cybersecurity efforts, robust firewalls, and cybersecurity education awareness have indicated that cyberspace is not as vulnerable as before.
Cyber viruses can infiltrate network systems through internet connectivity and cripple a business operation. Additionally, hackers can gain access to organizations’ security systems through weak access points due to low cybersecurity priorities. Many organizations have emphasized investment capital and marketable securities while ignoring adequate cybersecurity investments. The failure to prioritize cybersecurity is generally the cause of data compromises. The neglect of cybersecurity is usually the downfall of many organizations. It should be emphasized that the costs of cyber virus repairs continue to escalate yearly. In addition, firewall software developers have been creating technical and more complex protection systems that are more difficult to breach and hence, more costly to acquire. Notwithstanding the high cost of cybersecurity, organizations should allocate resources for appropriate security software to prevent cyber invasions. Although cybersecurity investments may be costly, it is necessary to protect information assets.
The global danger of computer and cyber viruses has placed an enormous strain on national and international law enforcement personnel to manage cybercrimes. The progression of cyber viruses has escalated, mainly as a result of the sophisticated training of hackers. The pervasive explosion of cyber viruses has impacted systems across industries and national governments. Indeed, cyber viruses are boundaryless. Unfortunately, government operatives and intelligence surveillance systems cannot completely prevent the spread of cyber viruses. Although law enforcement officials possess sophisticated monitoring equipment, their ability to trace the origin of some cyber viruses has been relatively futile. Nevertheless, government investigators have been able to digitally trace the source of some viruses by email and other disguisable apparatuses.
Researchers found that conventional surveillance methods became ineffective as technology advanced and data security vulnerability increased. The dark web is a section of the World Wide Web that can only be operated through a particular software. Notably, when the dark web software is accessed, users are essentially untraceable. Thus, hackers have the platform to wreak havoc and conduct e-crimes unabated. In addition, hackers anonymize communication on the dark web, making it impossible for law enforcement officials to determine the source. Traditional cybersecurity investigative methods rely on collecting data from third-party sources and disguise methodologies, including consent in some cases.
In the US, digital evidence can be collected and held in the custody of an individual or entity and is subject to national jurisdiction and due process. However, the conventional collection of evidence is obsolete on the dark web. Interestingly, when a user surf through the dark web to browse a website, the internet traffic appears to originate from one of many proxy computers with its own IP address rather than from the one the user is actually using. Because investigators cannot pinpoint the signal location of the targeted device, their ability to establish a conventional evidence collection is null and void.
Criminals use cyber viruses to interfere with law enforcement’s ability to investigate criminal activities, especially those that are digitally designed. Law enforcement can sometimes join hackers’ networks and coexist on forums that criminals frequently use. However, hackers do not trust one another. Therefore, even though they might coexist, they cannot determine each other’s identity.
The method of secret infiltration provides law enforcement with insights into the cyberattack world; thus, they can develop some levels of counterattacks against cybercriminals. By posing as cybercriminals, law enforcement can gather relevant information that could reduce cyberthreats. Cybersecurity experts posited that law enforcement uses a strategy known as the extraction approach. In this approach, law enforcement distributes a set of malware instructions that can execute instructions on a device, thus, converting the device into a surveillance tool. Once the malware is installed, law enforcement can use the device as a source of data collection. Law enforcement uses this strategy to spy on the dark web.
The dark web is linked to many criminal activities, such as data thefts, privacy invasions, and organized crimes. Criminals use this system because its invisibility shields them from criminal prosecution. Thus, the dark web is full of dangerous criminal activities, such as counterfeit transactions, drug peddling, sex trafficking, and illegal arms sales. Cybercriminals have found space in cyberspace to digitize crime and evade law enforcement, which is not yet able to collapse the criminal network on the dark web. The effort to police the dark web seems to be a case in futility.
The Purpose for the Analysis of the Global Danger of Cyber Viruses 
The purpose of technology is to scale business operations; however, cyber viruses can completely topple an entire business infrastructure. Viruses have the extraordinary capability to disguise themselves and spread swiftly throughout a system’s network. While some users may not take cybersecurity seriously and dismiss its impact on their businesses, it is crucial to recognize the existence of the present threat that could ultimately destroy a company’s network system and compromise members of its supply chains.
It must be stressed that cyber virus protection does not depend solely on firewalls. Organizations’ leadership should emphasize policy adherence and security control measures. Indeed, the entire company staff should be security conscious. Cyber virus management should be seen as a necessity. Indeed, cyber virus prevention should be part of risk management. Thus, management should forecast cyber virus attacks by utilizing historical data.
The process of monitoring cyber viruses should be taken with utmost vigilance. An organization free of viruses may gain a competitive advantage since it is free of possible disruptions. In addition, business leaders who practice cyber virus awareness may prevent their businesses from becoming victims of cybercrimes.
Theory Approach and Application
The global danger of computer viruses threatens to disrupt product design by interfering with the production process. If technology supports robotics used to assemble products and they are hacked and their application corrupted by viruses, such interference with the robotics component could change the blueprints of a new product model. Viruses and computer malware could affect a company’s quality product standard if cyber viruses corrupt the technology used in quality control assessments. Therefore, if products inspected by quality control (QC) are found below standard, those products may be returned to the manufacturing system for modification.
Suppose a company’s system is affected by viruses, and its network system is corrupted. In that case, the human resource department will not be able to access their database program to find the information they need to use for daily work, such as employee benefits like insurance, the number of days off, etc. Also, cyber viruses could be launched to steal confidential information about the employees that work for the company and threaten to disclose personal files and sensitive information. 
Along the line of interconnectivity and interaction of the supply chain management system, violent cyber viruses in the form of spyware can be installed in technology, such as a blockchain, to track the transactions between a company and its suppliers. A malicious attacker could use the information to gain an unfair advantage over another company’s production process and marketing strategies. Blockchain technology helps businesses to record the time of transactions, the location of the transaction, and operating costs, which improves business offerings.
A cyber virus planted in an inventory system could manipulate the system to produce false inventory records that could deceive the owner regarding the correct inventory available on-site. In addition, viruses that alter business processes could destroy the business’s reputation by producing an inferior product. Atonally, data distorted by a virus could make the company management team think that inventory is in the storeroom … when there is a stockout.
Regular maintenance helps managers stay ahead of malicious viruses. Therefore, business leaders must understand the threats to their data and determine the vulnerabilities associated with the data threats. Then implement preventative measures. Strategic decisions are required to combat the dangers of cyber viruses that could damage the organization’s reputation and expose customers’ private information to unscrupulous networks.
Literary Review, Background & Recent Threats 
Hackers have gotten sophisticated in their games. They began to using artificial intelligence (AI) to scale their efforts. By applying AI, hackers can vastly increase their success rate. As a combat strategy, cybersecurity developers have developed an AI-based cybersecurity system designed to sense AI cyber-related threats. The AI cybersecurity method involves censoring and monitoring complex, big data assets. AI security can detect threats and analyze real-time responses by interpreting the nature of the threat. Providers of AI-based cyber-resilience solutions have already distributed these counter cybersecurity tools. AI cyber-resilience solutions are designed to give internet users a sense of security and renewed confidence in their online activities.
The relatively new bio-inspired cybersecurity system is on the cutting edge of cyberspace security. Cybersecurity experts have explored a wide array of protection methods in the search for the most effective way of protection in cybersecurity technology. Bio-inspired cybersecurity applications tend to provide a robust cybersecurity method that can resist hackers. In addition, the innovative combination of AI and biotech has security competencies to protect network architectures and reduce the global danger of cyber viruses.
Cyber viruses are well known, and because of their volume, experts have captured many of them; therefore, experts can study the virus’s DNA and other unique features. Experts can develop antiviruses that can disable malware distributed on the global network by analyzing the virus. The inability of legislators to legislate effective cyberdefense laws gives cybercriminals confidence to practice and escalate their craft. Legitimate internet users are reluctant to share their private information online when required to conduct legitimate business. Notably so, because of the apparent insecurity in cybersecurity and the high potential for data breaches.
Review Cyber Virus Impact on Internet Users
The nature of e-commerce depends on online transactions, such as buying and selling, to prosper. Unfortunately, cyber viruses have infiltrated the process and made the experience unpleasant due to the impact of data breaches. Many cyber viruses target e-commerce transactions and successfully undermine users’ buying power. Malicious viruses are duplicating computer programs, causing malfunctions in computer networks. When a computer network malfunctions, the system is vulnerable to data compromises. Cyber invaders have unleashed violent cyber worms into global network traffic with the ability to cause computer accidents.
Cyber viruses are maliciously interrupting online exchanges in e-commerce and causing serious damage to hardware and software. The infamous Trojan Horse virus seems to lurk everywhere, seeking a loophole to launch its vicious attack on commercial and local computer networks. Trojan Horse programs can undermine users’ login credentials and access customers’ e-commerce transactions, exposing and stealing customers’ information. The breach of data using cyber viruses has resulted in a considerable loss of confidence and the degradation of organizations’ reputations. Generally, cyber viruses are transmitted through external sources and gain entrance to organizations’ networks through unsuspecting or negligent actions of employees.
Cyber viruses can cripple organizations by penetrating critical operating systems. They often infiltrate organizations’ networks because of poor detection systems and flawed firewalls. A proactive organization will practice cybersecurity intrusion detection tests to ensure its cybersecurity systems can withstand malicious intrusions. In addition, prevention systems and intrusion drills may help organizations combat serious virus attacks.
Cyber viruses have impacted the global network system with devastating effects. Cyber viruses like Moniker and WannaCry have infamously infected 45 national health services (NHS) organizations in the United Kingdom. The hackers behind these viruses held companies’ data hostage and demanded ransoms in exchange for the besieged data. Hackers temporarily disabled the organizations’ functionality to force the victimized organizations to act quickly and pay the ransom to resume normal operations. Research revealed that the virus attack affected at least 81 out of 236 trusts across England. Furthermore, 603 primary care and other NHS organizations were infected by the WannaCry virus. (Investigation WannaCry 2017).
The global dangers of computer and cyber viruses have moved to more territories. The new frontier includes social uprisings, political activism, and cybervigilantes branded as hacktivists. These individuals are using their resources to undermine big corporations and government institutions. Unfortunately, cyberspace has been relegated to a space of turmoil and activism. The problematic part of this uprising is that these hackers are gaining unauthorized access to organizations’ networks and breaching confidential data for their own self-interest.
On the global scene, social agendas and causes for social justice have become commonplace due to the emergence of technology that created social platforms that link individuals with similar ideals and preferences. Efforts of law enforcement to infiltrate hacktivist sources have proven futile owing to the use of the dark web. As a result, corporations are adapting proactive strategies to protect their valuable assets from unwanted exposure. The effort to counteract these cyber elements requires substantial cybersecurity protection investments.
Ethical Considerations
Ethical considerations such as the duty of care should receive greater emphasis from corporate leaders, since the customers’ privacy and organizations’ reputations are important. In addition, applying standards and adhering to protocols have become more urgent in the face of multiple threats. Therefore, organizational leaders should implement the appropriate technical and administrative security measures to ensure that the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of private data are sustainable.
Digitization
The digitization of the global economy has significantly changed social and commercial activities. Cybersecurity invaders have planned their intrusion attacks on large international financial intuitions to collect sensitive information that can be used for money laundering and international insider trading. As a result, many sovereign governments have classified cybersecurity threats as one of the gravest national security dangers in modern times.
Cybersecurity experts alluded that business leaders must contend with over 10 million viruses circulating the World Wide Web daily. Thus, careless action or lapse in security protocols could result in enormous losses. Yet, despite the known threats, 80% of small business owners reported that they have no cybersecurity policies and established procedures to manage their data protection process. The primary reason given for the security lax in cybersecurity is financial constraints.
Advance technology is rapidly spreading across the globe and in the process, bringing countries and people of all orientations together. This remarkable amalgamation amassed a rich source of valuable and sensitive information that needs to be carefully protected. Cyber viruses pose considerable threats to information host organizations. Thus, numerous cybercrimes have been facilitated by malware, spyware, and spam under the direction of hackers. Companies with cyber viruses have spent an inordinate amount of money to repair the damage. Cyber viruses have inflicted physical, emotional, and psychological damage. Many users have terminated their social media accounts and destroyed their online presence because of data breach experiences.
The primary intent of cybersecurity is to safeguard against those who have no moral boundary and are bent on stealing valuable information assets, such as banking information for illegal purposes. Cybersecurity is the tool for protecting and defending against the unauthorized collection of a person’s data. Data sources targeted by cyberhackers include:

Event logs
Laptops
Tablets
Mobile phones
Network servers
Routers
Domain names
Antivirus logs
Intrusion detection and prevention systems

Cybersecurity managers can avoid the danger of cyber viruses by focusing on implementing and maintaining proper network security procedures. Cyber viruses would be largely contained if all workers, including information handlers and noninformation handlers, were trained in cybersecurity awareness. The unified effort of the entire organization might produce a better result than just a partial number of workers.
The neglect of managers to install firewalls that engage in daily software and program monitoring could lead to the exploitation of the software’s weak point, which could give unauthorized access to unscrupulous characters. Firewalls are the gatekeepers responsible for monitoring the organizations’ network system. Therefore, smart firewalls will verify the identity and deny cyber virus access to sensitive data assets. In addition, layered firewalls and two-step authentication systems can monitor and protect the software and hardware from external and, in some cases, internal threats.
The most difficult cybersecurity threat an organization faces is internal; internal threats can be more detrimental than external threats. It is extremely dangerous when a malicious insider intentionally exploits organizational systems by using access privileges to the organization’s sensitive data assets. Internal threats are often challenging to detect since the information is often shared. Also, when an employee maliciously corrupts a vital data file, the cybersecurity team may not consider the matter malicious and, thus, may not investigate. Therefore, employees should be given restricted privileges and supervised access to sensitive data. Although internal threats do occur, external threats are more prevalent.
External threats are, by far, the most common. Hackers are looking to steal identities for financial gain and seek critical business secrets to gain competitive advantages through illegal means. These are all examples of external activities. Cybersecurity management should be aware of the danger of external attacks. When information security specialists want to identify potential threats, they use proxy servers to scan document contents so that the original content is undetectable. Undoubtedly, hackers are experts at coding viruses. Some particular viruses can transfer money from customers’ online banking accounts.
The Cost of Cyber Viruses
The cost inflicted on countries by cyber viruses are very high, as seen below:

The United States, with the lead of $5.4 million
Germany at $4.8 million
Brazil, $1.3 million
India, $1.1 million

(Source: Reed 2019)
Cybersecurity is an essential part of the aviation industry, mainly due to the interconnectivity of the electronic system, which is crucial for everyday operations. Security is of paramount interest given the potential cybersecurity threats from the cyberterrorist network. It must be stressed that any flaw in aviation security may lead to a catastrophic disaster. For example, a cyber invasion into the air traffic signal could disrupt flights and cause delays and accidents. Aviation management has reported that cybercriminals have attacked aviation systems and caused delays and confusion with ground transportation and air traffic signals. However, aviation cybersecurity management teams were able to maneuver without incidents.
Conclusion
The overarching solutions to the global danger of computer and cyber viruses are precautionary initiatives. Necessary measures must be taken to prevent data breaches and cyberattacks rather than scrambling to find solutions after an incident occurs. Data is an essential asset to every organization; therefore, cybersecurity teams must take bold initiatives to protect the data. Since organizations have no global standardization to prevent these malicious activities, each one must develop a resilient strategy that fits its business model.
The Global Dangers of Cyber Viruses: The Limitations 
Some of the limitations that users face with computer and cyber viruses are: (1) Their ability to duplicate themselves rapidly. (2) Their divergent appearance and attributes; viruses appear in many different forms. (3) Their apparent indivisibility characteristic; they are not readily visible and easily detected. (4) The cost of staying ahead of computer viruses. (5) The lack of competent technical staff. (6) The lack of education awareness. (7) Firewall leaks. The magnitude of cyber viruses requires an intentional effort to reduce their impact by individuals and organizations. Despite the limitations, cybersecurity experts have been making significant progress in curtailing the level of impact and dangers posed by cyber viruses. The daily online interactions and communications with electronic communication, mainly electronic mail, have made modern businesses susceptible to cyber viruses and crimes.
An effective fight against cyber viruses comes when organizations acknowledge their weaknesses and apply the relevant resources to prevent attacks. Some weaknesses may include (1) Outdated hardware systems, (2) Weak user authentication, and (3) Insufficient allocation of cybersecurity resources. Rapid technological changes have left many organizations with outdated hardware and software systems. Indeed, the costs of updating and acquiring new hardware and software systems frequently present an economic burden to many organizations. Electronic devices, equipment, and hardware have their useful life before an unexpected mechanical issue occurs. However, rapid technological changes often made operating equipment outdated before its useful life expectancy.
Even though some organizations may allocate sufficient resources to protect their physical and information assets, a weak user authentication could provide unauthorized access to cyber invaders. Therefore, it is essential for management to add multifactor authentication as well as set up an automatic password renewal with character criteria for employees. Again, I want to reiterate that resource allocation for cybersecurity protection may not prevent a cyberattack; however, it will greatly reduce the risk of an attack.
The historical trend demonstrated that it is difficult to prevent cyber virus infections; nevertheless, prevention methods must be sought and put in place. Preventative measures that may save the organization from a catastrophic event are (1) Updating technology for your technological systems, such as hardware and software. (2) Installing and renewing your security firewall yearly. (3) Backing up your data files on an external source. (4) Educating and training your employees about stronger user authentication. (5) Changing login credentials every three to six months.
The constant updating of equipment and technology is frustrating as well as costly. Fortune 500 companies have developed whole departments in their companies to deal solely with all things technological, whereas small organizations that lack the resources to acquire the talent and facilities to manage their technology find the process a daunting task. Antivirus programs are the gatekeepers that defend organizational networks from malware. Cybersecurity developers have designed cloud-based antivirus technology with endpoint detection and response apparatuses that block malware.
Chapter Summary
Malware are cybercriminals’ tools that they dispatch strategically to infect computer network systems to gain unauthorized access to the private information of the target. Cyber viruses are embedded in secret programs and have traveled the World Wide Web infecting the networks of unsuspecting users and providing unauthorized access to the dispatcher. There is a wide range of cyberattackers with various agendas. Some hackers fall into such categories as whiz kids, freedom fighters, disgruntled employees, and organized crime leaders. However, the motives of cyber invaders are always transparent, such as monetary, political, malicious, or experimental. Other reasons for cybersecurity crimes are jealousy, greed, and competition. Cyber viruses are generally hard to detect as they are invisible to the public and untrained users.
Controlling the spread of cyber viruses remains the number one priority of cybersecurity professionals. The global danger of cyber viruses and worm exposes organizations and individuals to digital abuse. Some of the digital abuses include denial-of-service (DoS) network attacks, data breaches, and privacy compromises. In addition, cyber viruses are being used to undermine competition, steal confidential information, and abort critical operating systems, resulting in loss of productive hours and delays.
The diversity of cyber viruses limit the ability of antivirus developers to produce a permanent solution, given that viruses continue to evolve. The failure of cybersecurity professionals to remain vigilant and apply preventive measures could negatively impact the victim. As cyber viruses evolve, cybersecurity teams are busy developing counter-protection firewalls. There appears to be competition between security advocates and those on the opposite side; that is, cybercriminals. Due to COVID-19, many employees are working online; this may expose organizational data to cybercity risks. Given this new paradigm, cybersecurity personnel should train online workers to detect malicious transactions by inadvertently opening malware.
The COVID-19 pandemic may have increased the number of phishing emails as hackers capitalized on COVID-19 links and information streams. As previously mentioned, remote work may have contributed to increased cybersecurity incidents. Cybersecurity teams should be extra careful as cybercriminals also target them, hoping that a lapse in security protocols will give them a break. The global danger of cyber viruses run secretly and invisibly throughout cyberspace. Through its dark nature, it threatens the livelihood of many users and ruins the reputation of many trusted organizations. The impact of these viruses is felt by thousands of users who have experienced data breaches and identity thefts. Many users are left with huge financial debts that they did not incur. Also, many users have lost their credit, cash, and other valuable data assets. Notwithstanding this apparent bleak report, many cybercriminals have been apprehended, and cybersecurity developers have been able to design more robust firewalls that have become more difficult to penetrate. However, the fights for cybersecurity is far from over. Nevertheless, cybersecurity experts have made significant inroads into cybercriminal networks and can thwart many of their strategies.
The overarching solutions to the global danger of computer and cyber viruses are precautionary initiatives. It is ideal to take the necessary measures to prevent data breaches and cyberattacks rather than scrambling to find solutions when an incident occurs. Data is essential to every organization; therefore, cybersecurity teams must take bold initiatives to protect their data. Since organizations have no global standardization to prevent these malicious activities, each organization must develop a resilient strategy that fits its business model.
Exercise Questions:

Three dangers that online users, including sovereign nations, face are?
Sabotage is one of the dangers online users face. But can sabotage be internal as well as external? Explain.
How can governments protect their assets from electronic espionage (unauthorized access to the computer network via the use of computer viruses) by enemy nations?
Attacks on national infrastructure by malicious actors can occur with enormous damages. List two ways that governments can protect their infrastructure from intruders.
What are the two main reasons why cyberattackers attack organizations?
In 2020, Lewis University conducted research that shed considerable light on the Russian Business Network (RBN). What did they find?
By 2008, storm worm cyberattacks advanced from personal computers to government institutions. So what is responsible for its success?
On August 27, 2008, NASA reported that a worm virus had infected laptops in the International Space Station. By November 2008, the Pentagon reported that suspected Russian hackers had hacked its computer network. So what do the Russians want?
What led to these cybersecurity incidents in these governments’ management systems, especially among important US government agencies?
How can awareness help to reduce cybersecurity incidents among users?








CHAPTER NINE
Hackers: Profits, Greed, and the Pervasiveness of Cybercriminals
Introduction
Hackers have been making enormous profits from ransoms and data thefts. Operating on the dark web, hackers are making lucrative gains from bank transfers, wire frauds, data sales, and insider trading. Through greed, hackers are targeting every source of potential income, including hospitals, thereby putting patients at risk without any sensitive considerations. Even a powerful country like the US is a victim of hacking activities. The US has been plagued with cyberhackers’ activities in many key institutions and agencies, such as the White House, Congress, and NASA, among others. Also, hackers have targeted oil-rich governments like Saudi Arabia. Countries around the globe, small and great, have been hacked. Hackers have breached and stolen valuable classified, secret, and sensitive personal information useful to make political statements or slander. In this chapter, we will examine and learn what cybercrime is, who commits these crimes, their motives, how cybercrime impacts society, and the possible solutions. Cybercrime is a criminal activity done using the computer and the internet. Further, cybercrimes can be defined as any violation of criminal law that involves the use of computer technology. The goal of cybercriminals is to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information, such as innovations, personal information, employment records, and banking credentials.
Undoubtedly, the progression of the computer and the internet has made our personal and professional lives more convenient. However, the convenience we enjoy is threatened by criminal elements within the technology system. Criminals have exploited the technology with illegal practices and have committed many computer crimes like identity theft. In addition, the expansion of online activities, specifically, e-commerce, e-learning, e-banking, and the internet of things, has provided immense data that criminals find lucrative.
Cybercriminal networks have an abundance of resources in technological talent and financial resources. Therefore, they can undertake large and complex illegal projects such as cyberbank robberies. The six major US banks that have suffered cyberattacks are Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup, US Bank, Wells Fargo, and PNC Bank. The impact of cybercriminals on financial institutions is significant because it affects the country’s economic system. Cybercrimes undermine the ability of organizations to provide efficient service. Poor service reduces profits and compromises credibility. Also, cybersecurity damage is costly to repair. Further, cyberbreaches ruin the confidence of customers and partners who fear that doing business with an organization that is hacked could expose them in future attacks.
Despite the increase in cybercrimes, technology has given the world a new, more efficient way of communicating. Unfortunately, the vast access to communication and interaction has attracted users with ill motives. Due to advances in cybertechnology, cybercrimes have become more pervasive than ever. Cybercriminals are incredibly talented in advanced cybertechnology and can penetrate cybersecurity systems. Therefore, organizations on defense against cybercriminals must have strict operating policies and multilayered firewall systems.
The Background of Cyberhackers

The first time the term “hack” was associated with electronic apparatuses was probably during the 1960s. Notably, the word hack was used initially with an electronic model train set modification. In 1961, club members hacked into their electronic train sets to modify their functions. In recent times, a new form of hacking has emerged. Early forms of hacking were on the telephone system. Hackers modified the electronic features of toy phones and used them to make long-distance calls.
In the 1980s, hacking activities grew from modifying electronic toy phones to accessing large computer networks. The early hackers focused on businesses and universities since personal home computers and laptops were not yet widespread. However, the wide availability and increased use of personal computers (PCs) created an expanded source of opportunities for hackers. The early computer hackers, known as White Hat hackers, were not malicious or greedy. They intended to identify weak points in the system and use the knowledge to improve the technology. However, as the hacking phenomenon expanded, it attracted unscrupulous individuals who focused on building a criminal hacking enterprise. Thus, the emergence of a new branch of criminal hackers known as the Black Hat.
The Black Hat hackers are unethical and engage in creating viruses, spreading viruses, and breaking into computer networks for the sole purpose of acquiring illicit gains. Black Hat hackers made their living by stealing and trading sensitive information on the dark web. As malicious hacking activities expanded and began to interrupt critical systems, including national governments, the government intervened with legislation that gave law enforcement the tools to apprehend and prosecute criminal hackers with harsh penalties and stiff fines. However, hackers were primarily known to technologists, and there was a lack of awareness among computer and internet users.
The awareness of hackers and cybercrimes came to light in the 1990s when hackers began to sabotage large organizations through the transmission of viruses. Also, Black Hats engage in malicious crimes against established organizations by breaching their information assets and stealing millions of records. Governments’ resources in law enforcement, such as the Secret Service, have apprehended a few hackers. However, hackers are cleverer than before. Hence, to protect their identities, they operate on the dark web where there are no digital footprints. In the 2000s, new and dangerous types of hackers emerged with advanced skills to attack government entities and prominent businesses for political statements and financial gains.
The Problem of Cyberhackers’ Greed
The problem global internet users face is hackers’ greed and unethical practices. Indeed, modern society has advanced to a contemporary global digital age, where personal data is shared through digital methods for official and unofficial use. Hence, unauthorized hackers have found a way to exploit the transactional activities of users. As consumers conduct business online, they must contend with cyber invaders who intend to steal data. Hackers have penetrated web pages undetected and have installed malware and malicious software to trap unsuspecting users. This malware can steal confidential information without the attention and knowledge of the users. The major problem is that many users, including organizations and individuals, are vulnerable to hackers’ attacks. Therefore, it is urgent to establish a global system to curtail hackers’ successes and render their businesses unsuccessful and risky. If hackers felt threatened, their efforts would not have been so pervasive.
The problem of awareness is a pitfall for many avid online users. Remarkably, many online service users are unaware of personal data surveillance and dataveillance. Dataveillance is the practice of collecting and monitoring online users’ data continuously. This process involves collecting metadata such as telephone conversations, email messages, text messages, and faxes. Governments use Dataveillance to gain valuable information for criminal prosecution and national security.
Dataveillance is a favorite tool for hackers because they have the technology and the talent to maximize their potential outcomes. Some users on the digital platform are aware that agencies are monitoring their digital activities; however, they think it is for commercial and ethical purposes. Hence, they fail to fully acknowledge the possible theft and privacy invasion that could be taking place. The number of hackers targeting personal data increased exponentially, primarily by attacking mobile devices, as many users keep their personal information on their mobile devices for convenience. Personal mobile devices offer limited protection as users log in to public Wi-Fi, where their data is vulnerable. Hackers have accessed and targeted the World Wide Web because they know that individual and organizational proprietary information are in plenty supply.
Researchers associated with the Global Threat Intelligence Report alluded that the major vulnerabilities that give hackers access to personal data are the failure of end users to monitor their online activities and install the appropriate cybersecurity protections. Hackers strategically access vital organizational information by transmitting malware, termed ransomware, to organizations’ networks. This malware can block access to the user’s network systems and hold it hostage for financial negotiations. Although organizations continue to set up defense mechanisms against malware attacks, hackers’ techniques are far more sophisticated than many organizations. Thus, hackers have greater technological leverage. Hackers have caused organizations to suffer significant losses from potential legal expenses, brand duplications, diminishing customers’ confidence, and governmental fines. Furthermore, organizations have borne the burden of vigorous investigations, remediation, and public relation management. Undoubtedly, public relation is a means by which companies attempt to rebuild their brand reputations. It should be stressed that an excellent brand reputation is equal to profits.
Hackers’ Purpose and Intentions
This chapter seeks to develop an in-depth understanding of how cybercriminals acquire access to web-based systems and take advantage of individuals’ and organizations’ information assets. I further explore how hackers manipulate institutions, including governmental agencies, and inflict harm. For example, the intrusion of Black Hats into major governmental agencies is of grave concern to national security. As a result, governments have spent considerable financial resources to combat cybersecurity intrusions to strengthen security. However, cyberhackers continue to breach major government agencies and expose valuable information despite their strategic efforts.
Researchers have alluded that web-based systems are gateways for hackers to gain a strategic advantage over their competitors. Every piece of personal data is a potential source of income for hackers. Organizations store rich sources of financial information, such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, inventory records, and price lists that hackers could trade for significant monetary value. Hackers have the skills and resources to distribute deceptive programs on institutions’ network systems that lie dormant in anticipation of being activated by human or system errors. Hackers can disrupt users’ network systems, leading to a loss of time and undermining the efficient delivery of goods and services.
Hackers are greedy and profit-driven. Hackers profit significantly from malicious cyber-activities, which is why their efforts are pervasive. Unfortunately, hackers are rarely apprehended, as it is difficult to identify them. Indeed, hackers operate in a virtually invisible world. Hackers amassed profits that range from $40,000 to $2 million a year. Indeed, that is no pocket change. With that amount of untaxed income, hackers are substantially wealthy.
Of course, hacking activities generate quick profits. Hackers employ many different strategies to deceive and manipulate users. These tactics include:

Cyberstalking
Fraud and identity theft
Phishing scams and information warfare
Network and information hostage
Virus email links

Through the previous tactics, hackers can access users’ data, such as Social Security numbers, demographic data, and banking information. Hackers are primarily seeking access to your funds and are inclined to use whatever means necessary to do so.
Users must know hackers’ tactics, abilities, and skills to avoid cybercriminal victimization online by profiteering hackers. Also, users should be informed of the most effective protection systems available on the market and use them to protect against unwanted access. Research scholars have alluded that hackers made some of their profits from malicious activities such as:

Kidnapping
Blackmailing
Sex trafficking
Crypto scams

The unified efforts of online users can halt hackers’ profits and prominence. However, every user should see the need to protect the information that the user is sharing and only access verifiable information.
Theory of Hackers’ Greed and Profiteering 
This section examines why computer technology talents enter hackers’ networks. Students who engage in hacking activities are exceptionally gifted and stimulated by complex challenges. Just like corporations are looking to recruit the best talents, hackers seek students of extraordinary skills to join their lucrative hacking enterprises. The incentive for students to join the hackers’ network is strong, seeing that a student can make an income of $1 million in one year compared to making $180,000, subject to payroll taxes.
The process of recruiting these students is secretive and secure. Hackers’ human resources team ensures that the associates the student recruit brings into their organization are exceptionally talented. Also, within these hacker groups, information and advanced techniques are shared, further improving the hacker enterprises’ productivity. Cybersecurity scholars alluded that hackers’ networks tend to recruit other hackers through online communities using an anonymous process to effectively maximize their efforts of targeting vulnerable computer networks. Hackers’ attack strategies are generally successful because they operate from a position of strength.
Hacker networks implement total quality management (TQM) strategies in their operations to leverage their resources. Comprehensive quality management refers to a quality emphasis that encompasses the entire organization, from supplier to customer. Hackers’ networks must produce quality products and services for their customers on the dark web to increase revenues. Thus, hackers must ensure that they achieve their intended goals with every strategic engagement. In addition, hackers’ human resources strategy is well-defined; therefore, they implement total quality management by only recruiting exceptionally talented hackers into their organizations.
TQM requires a constant process of improvement that covers people, equipment, suppliers, and materials. Hacker networks adopt the approach of continually improving to stay ahead of ironclad firewalls. Hackers’ networks continue to source new talented hackers so that they can share innovative ideas, test new skills, and organize coordinated efforts on lucrative targets. Hackers’ groups must improve or change their hacking methods to stay relevant.
By implementing a strategic human resources approach and TQM, hackers’ networks can recruit top talents and use TQM methodology to sustain a practical pathway. The application of the TQM systematic approach is one of the reasons for hackers’ success. Furthermore, by maintaining strategic systems, hackers can maximize their profits and remain sustainable.
The Pervasive Activities of Hackers
Companies have goals and objectives that guide their strategic vision. For example, one of the objectives of modern business enterprises is to secure their data assets from unauthorized use. Within that strategic process, they upgrade their technology to deny cybercriminals unauthorized access. On the other hand, hackers have goals and objectives to obtain unauthorized access to sensitive information that is valuable on the dark web. Hence, they too upgrade their technology to meet the resistance of their targets.
Criminal hackers have overrun the governments of developing countries. Cybercrime management is expensive and requires large financial budgets. Many developing countries focus on their critical infrastructures, such as utilities, education, roads, transportation, and finances. Hence, allocating resources to manage cybercrime often meets with a shortfall. Developing countries have grown in technological use. Many developing countries share relatively similar technological parity with developed countries. And the growth of technology has led to an increase in criminal activity. However, developed countries are not able to keep pace with criminal hackers.
Given the inexhaustible number of hackers, many industries have been using antivirus software that makes their computer activities undetectable. Undetectable activities offer substantial data protection by keeping the data invisible.
The Demise of Apprehended Hackers
Mathew Bevan and Richard Pryce, two European hackers who collaborated and hacked the US government network (Pentagon) were arrested and charged in 1996 with conspiracy and offenses under the computer Misuse Act. Since then, several notorious hackers have been caught charged for their crimes. Despite the risk of prosecution which include heavy fines; hackers continue to engage in cybercrimes.
In 1983, Kevin Poulsen, a 17-year-old high school student with extraordinary computer technology talent, hacked the ARPANET network. This network was formerly decommissioned in 1990, and a new net known as NSFNet was established. Several years later, Poulsen hacked the US government to get information on the president of the Philippines, Ferdinand Marcos. Poulsen hid his identity and operated under the name Dark Dante. Poulsen could have gotten away with these crimes if he had not bragged about them. One of Poulsen’s big games was in1990 when he hacked into a radio station contest as the 102nd caller and won $20,000 in prize money, a brand-new Porsche, and a vacation. Because Poulsen bragged, he was apprehended, tried, and sentenced. The hacker turned his life around and became a writer who specialized in writing about hacking and computer security techniques.
The Prevalence of Cyberattacks
The interconnectivity process allows the transfer of relevant files from one computer system to another, making it possible to retrieve information from a web page. Since hackers are aware of the process, they strategically visit organizations’ web pages and install malware that is website undetected. This malware can capture data and send it to the hackers’ systems while transferring files. As a caution, users should never enter a website without the adequate protection of firewalls. Without firewalls, users are exposed to hidden malware running in the background on many websites. Malware is a hacker’s tool to access confidential information from unsuspecting users. Hackers are in the business of information trading. They made their revenues by selling the stolen information to the highest bidder in areas of organized crime rings.
One of the major causes of users’ vulnerability lies with the exposure of mobile devices by logging in to public internet connections such as unsecured Wi-Fi. The following review shows some potential vulnerabilities that users should be mindful of.

Many personal mobile devices are connected to the internet without adequate protections
Unsecure devices that connect to organizations’ networks may unknowingly infect malware in the organization’s mainframe system
Mobile devices that are not encrypted provide a gateway for potential breaches of secure business activities
Slow responses to data compromises could magnify the impact of a data breach
74% of organizations do not have an established plan to counteract cyberattacks
Many organizations lack control of network management and malware detection
Irregular system updates to repair patches and configuration management

Examining the variety of technological devices connected to the internet may help explain why cyberhackers’ activities are so commonplace. Indeed, the exposure levels are relatively high, considering the number of unsecured online devices. In addition, the emergence of multiple industries on web-based platforms with their own devices, such as medical devices, onboard car computers, emergency signaling, social networks, and the internet of things, provide rich grounds for hacking activities. Hackers maintain technological dominance in cyberspace despite the many firewall technologies available to individuals and organizations.
The Efficacy of Blockchain Security Tested by Hackers
Many businesses have turned to blockchain technology as a source of reliable security. Indeed, blockchain is relatively secure. Notably, blockchain technology is decentralized and distributed; therefore, there is no single point of failure that allows for potential corruption. Even though blockchain is relatively secure, in June 2020, hackers were able to steal almost $200 million worth of cryptocurrencies from a Cayman Islands-based crypto exchange Bit Mart.
Hackers’ Strategic Approach
Hackers utilize two types of attack approaches: mass attacks and targeted attacks.

Mass attacks: These attacks focus on large organizations with many networks and alliances to leverage the attack. Generally, this type of attack is done to exploit the breach of the security system of a large group of users. The hacker may use a direct or indirect method.
Targeted attacks: These attacks focus primarily on unprotected and vulnerable computer systems. The aim is to find a network that has a weak point and access the system through that means. For example, the hacker may identify the vulnerability by running a reconnaissance probe or buying potential vulnerability information from the hackers’ network on the dark web.

One of the reasons for the success of hackers is their analytical skills. Hackers are rational thinkers. That is one of the reasons why it is so difficult to apprehend them. Hackers act when they are highly confident that the decision that they are making is within their abilities. Hackers’ decisions are based on rational considerations. Because of their strong preference for sound decision-making, their success rates are high and consistent.
Hacker Education and Background
Hackers are highly intelligent and well educated. Ninety percent of all hackers had at least some college education and over one-fourth, 27%, attained either a master’s or a Ph.D. degree. Hackers are highly accomplished individuals with a high level of confidence. Hackers’ decision-making ability is relatively sound. Hence, the type of organization they choose to attack indicates their skills and confidence (Finnie, Petee, and Jarvis 2010).
Three types of cybercrimes related to hackers are considered:

Crimes in the device: Crimes in the device occur when the content on the device is illegal or prohibited. An example of this crime is the distribution of content that promotes violence.
Crimes using the device: Crimes using the device relate to crimes where digital systems are used to commit the crime. This type of crime involves using specific devices to deceive victims. An example of this criminal practice is the hacker pretending to be an actual figure and tricking individuals into giving them access to the individual’s personal information.
Crimes against the device: Crimes against the device relate to incidents perpetrated by hackers that compromise the function of the device or system in some form. An example of this type of crime is cybersecurity which breaches a system or data assets.

The cybercrime network is a multibillion-dollar industry. The hackers’ networks have steadily built their own underground economy over the past 20 years. Hackers have become more shrew and sophisticated than in past decades. Thus, they arm themselves with new technological systems that give them unfair advantages over their victims. The lucrative buzz of the crypto market has caught the interest of hackers; hence, hackers have entered the cryptocurrency arena and stolen millions of dollars … Money gone without a chase. The safety of the dark web made hackers bolder and more intentional in their criminal undertakings.
Cryptocurrency and the Popularity of Bitcoin
Given the pervasive greed of hackers, it is no surprise that they have entered the new frontier of the crypto marketplace. The popularity of Bitcoin has sparked a lot of interest in the global frontier. With its blockchain security, Crypto was seen as the safe haven for secure investments, but that did not last for long. Hackers found the key to unlocking blockchain security and rewarded themselves substantially. Indeed, hackers have crippled the crypto market, forcing it to reinvent its security system.
Chainalysis reported that $3.3 billion worth of cryptocurrency was stolen in
