# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 24235 - The Evolution of AI Technology
One hundred years ago, technology was used for specific functions, mainly scientific research, government intelligence, and industrial production. However, that is no longer the case with the emergence of artificial intelligence. With the advancement of technology, AI is used in almost every consumer product and service. Artificial intelligence is different from nominal technology in many ways in that AI is designed to simplify tasks, solve complicated problems, minimize errors, and improve efficiency. Today, AI is found in a wide range of industries. For example, AI is helping in scientific research, product development, commercial aviation, e-commerce, health care, and distance learning.
Artificial intelligence is designed for various important purposes. AI assistance is key to the following:
Security Relevance Score: 24
Word Count: 13355
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

The Evolution of AI Technology
One hundred years ago, technology was used for specific functions, mainly scientific research, government intelligence, and industrial production. However, that is no longer the case with the emergence of artificial intelligence. With the advancement of technology, AI is used in almost every consumer product and service. Artificial intelligence is different from nominal technology in many ways in that AI is designed to simplify tasks, solve complicated problems, minimize errors, and improve efficiency. Today, AI is found in a wide range of industries. For example, AI is helping in scientific research, product development, commercial aviation, e-commerce, health care, and distance learning.
Artificial intelligence is designed for various important purposes. AI assistance is key to the following:

Assist scientists in solving baffling mysteries in physics
Unify gravity and quantum mechanics

For instance, the Microsoft AI for Earth program connects researchers in environmental science with the AI and computing resources they need to conduct their research. It is important to note that governments have always used technology in research and development (R&D) and national defense. Technology is key in strategic planning, organizing, and developing war strategies. Notably, in recent times, the US military has used AI in the Middle East to lead in dangerous terrains, clear land mines, direct drone strikes, pick up enemy signals, and engage in combat.
Additionally, AI is instrumental in helping multinational businesses control global financial markets. AI can conduct stock analysis and provide decision-making information that would be time-consuming for human intelligence. Some corporations use IBM’s Watson AI technology to market various goods and services globally. As previously discussed, IBM Watson is an AI process that can determine personality characteristics from machine learning. Unquestionably, AI aims to reduce the cost of operations, expedite manual and repetitive tasks, improve performances, and increase profitability. Due to the rapid change in the aviation industry, it strives to use the most advanced technology to maintain reliability and consistency. Hence, AI is an important element in the industry’s operations. AI is key to modernizing safety standards and enhancing human approaches in helping to improve airline services by providing the tools to customize travel experiences with a more personal touch than before.
The healthcare industry has adopted AI technology to promote precision, efficiency, and accuracy in patients’ service delivery. As a result, artificial intelligence significantly impacts patients’ primary care services. Prominent areas of AI functions are:

Online scheduling of patients’ appointments.
Online check-ins and billing in medical centers.
Digitization of medical records and online access.
Reminder notices and follow-up calls for appointments.

Higher education institutions have benefited mainly from using artificial intelligence in long-distance learning, specifically online classes. Instructors are using AI to aid in teaching, while students are using AI to attend virtual classes and assist with the completion of their assignments in research. Unfortunately, some educational institutions lag behind and have not caught up with AI technology due to a lack of resources.
Theory and Application of AI and the Supply Chain 
Among the various reasons for AI, supply chain management is perhaps one of the most prominent. It encompasses all human activities, from the producer to the consumer. Remarkably, everything that we use is produced and consumed in some way. Interestingly, not only consumers’ goods and services are consumed and used, but science and technology are consumed and used as well. Thus, the supply chain is a representation of human activities. Furthermore, the supply chain augments AI because the supply involves a wide range of activities and functions that require advanced technology to meet consumers’ needs efficiently.
Essentially, the creation of robots happened because businesses needed a more efficient way to handle certain business functions. For instance, robots do heavy lifting more efficiently than human effort. Also, routine laborious work is better suited for robots. Further, robots take care of dusty and hazardous tasks more safely. So, robots are human aids; they enhance human performance and increase productivity. Certainly, artificial intelligence technology aligns closely with the theory of the supply chain since they complement each other.
Notably, AI has benefitted supply chain management using advanced software such as digital twin and blockchain technologies. Digital twin helps monitor system performances and reduce costly unplanned equipment outages. For example, car manufacturers use the digital twin in their cloud storage related to information systems, temperature, and motor speed to keep track of the vehicles’ performance. In contrast, blockchain is used throughout manufacturing, primarily working with projects and stakeholders. This technology allowed fruit-producing companies to keep track of their products’ picking process by placing labels with scanned codes to learn the item’s travel history. The technology benefits the supply chain by providing vital information on the distribution rate from the start until the goods reach the hands of the final consumers.
Also, AI impacted the retail industry online. When consumers conduct online searches, intelligent machines that use machine-learning technology capture the information about the shopper’s interests and analyze it for marketing purposes. AI analyzes an individual’s shopping habits and views add basket to determine the size of the customer’s purchase. Furthermore, when individuals speak about a product or service of interest, the individuals may receive promotions targeting that interest due to voice recognition and machine-learning features on the individuals’ mobile devices.
AI Technology
Through AI technology’s advancement, customer service exceeds customers’ expectations, useful data is automatically collected, and problems are solved quickly and efficiently. AI-driven systems aid key tasks such as traffic-monitoring systems, solving street crimes, and locating stolen vehicles. Artificial intelligence is helping to reshape the digital workforce by assisting humans in handling intricate and repetitive tasks.
AI technology is developed to make the human work experience manageable. However, many scholars have contended that AI may gain preeminence over human beings in the future. Some scholars have noted that AI has been developed with the ability to perform tasks that usually require human intelligence. Thus, AI devices can hear and see and adapt to their environment. It is interesting to know that AI devices can now drive motor vehicles on highways and in traffic without the assistance of a human driver. Notwithstanding, AI technology does not eliminate human intelligence. Bear in mind that AI is driven by human intelligence. Without human intervention, AI technology cannot survive. The programs’ development, repairs, spare parts, and the sustainability of AI are all in the hands of human intelligence. AI technology is a human invention that is designed to improve human society.
Indeed, AI is reshaping marketing strategies, including business offerings, sales approaches, and customer relations, in many important ways. For instance, Amazon currently has stores that have no checkout line. Instead, customers can walk into the store and use a virtual shopping cart that adds items as the shopper picks them up. Once the shopper completes shopping, the app automatically charges the shopper’s credit or debit card. In 2018, Walmart tested its shelf-scanning robots, which scanned shelf aisles in two to three minutes. The robots counted the items on the shelves and sent messages to the workers, informing them which aisles needed the most attention. The robotic process enables the process to be done in real time. The robot navigates through the store continuously and returns information to indicate the items sold and unsold in the store. To ease the fear of AI replacement of workers, Tiffany Wilson, a spokeswoman for Walmart, reiterated that the robots would not replace workers. Instead, robots allow employees more time to focus on customer service and sales.
Despite the assurance from business leaders, researchers have predicted that many jobs will disappear relatively soon as automation gradually assumes control of business operation functions. There may be few new jobs to replace those functions that are automated. New jobs may be created in technology; however, many workers may find that discipline challenging. For example, many individuals acquire driving skills and make their income as taxi operators. However, with the introduction of self-driving vehicles, taxi operators may become unemployed. Many taxi operators are not educationally inclined; thus, they are not readily trainable in technology. Further, self-driving cars will reduce taxi operators’ employment in ridesharing businesses like Uber and Lyft.
Certainly, driverless cars may increase the profits of ridesharing corporations as they eliminate the costs of drivers. Evidently, the future of human labor seems uncertain with the progression of AI. Traditionally, advanced technology changes job descriptions and the role of workers. AI technology is different in that it does not change the job description. Instead, it assumes the role and replaces the human function.
Questions that AI technologists should answer:

Will the rise in AI technologies lead to a reduction in human labor?
Will AI render some human skills obsolete?
Will AI displace less educated workers?
Will AI create lasting jobs?
Will AI increase poverty rates?
Will AI improve the quality of life for all?

The AI contention among scholars is whether it will eliminate jobs from humans, advance society, or destroy humans’ cognitive abilities … and ultimately destroy civilization as we know it. It is still uncertain how far AI will go and the impact that it will have globally. Already, AI has taken the jobs of many citizens of the world, causing hardship among the undereducated. In addition, big corporations are capitalizing on AI technology’s cost-cutting benefits, while some workers’ careers are disrupted, their finances depleted, and their hope of achieving their dreams diminish.
AI advances progress in the following areas:

Natural language processing
The reading of consumer reviews on the web
Image recognition scanning and picture posting on social media platforms
Speech recognition that improves customer service

AI machines can reason with knowledge, process natural languages, and adapt to their environment relatively efficiently. Remarkably, AI machines can interact relatively comfortably with humans by asking pertinent questions, providing sensible answers, relating to responses, refusing requests, and seeking advice. Many companies are using AI technology to deliver their core competencies. Hence, AI helps organizations monitor events, advise on best practices, schedule and conduct webinar training, facilitate onboarding new employees, and engage in collaborations.
AI could drastically change the landscape of education and jeopardize the quality of future education through the mass digitization of the educational system. Education is an area of interest that should be considered for human control because the teachers’ role is teaching and modeling, which is key to educational development. The digitalization of education with limited human intervention could impair human contributions to create new ideas. The hands-on teaching elements teach students specific valuable life skills necessary for personal growth and development. Therefore, we should embrace AI but not allow AI to take preeminence. Combining humans and AI may provide students with an immensely rich educational experience. Although AI service is helpful in teaching, learning, and interacting, it may not be effective in modeling behaviors, physical practice, handwriting training, and elementary reading as a human teacher. Undoubtedly, AI and businesses are in sync.
Management needs to have a working knowledge of the process to benefit fully from AI. In other words, management needs to know how to utilize AI to maximize its capabilities. Advancements in AI open new markets and opportunities for professions in various industries. Also, machines have learned how to do specific tasks like image recognition and other human-related tasks. However, AI is really a computer-driven machine. As such, it cannot empathize with human emotions when an incident occurs the way a human can. Therefore, human intelligence is inherent and contains unique attributes, whereas AI is programmed to produce a general response.
Interestingly, machines can match human skills, complement human skills, and exceed human skills. However, machines are limited to their operating systems; thus, a machine may not have the ability to make ethical decisions. Ethical principles require value judgments and character that are inherent in humans.
The Applications of Natural Intelligence and Artificial Intelligence 
Interestingly, artificial intelligence is derived from natural intelligence (NI). AI cannot exist without NI because NI invents AI and must sustain AI lest AI becomes irrelevant. Therefore, human intelligence, or NI, is far superior to AI. The confusion with AI and NI is that AI comprises multiple systems with multiple skills inputted into a machine by NI, whereas NI is a single human system. Naturally, AI will be able to do more given its input and programs, which is the intended purpose of NI. AI is, in some ways, the general application of the knowledge and information derived from the NI, that is, the human mind.
Limitations of AI Technology
The extensive use of artificial intelligence globally in economic systems is remarkable. Many technology enthusiasts are excited about the immense possibilities that emerged with these smart devices that have humanlike intelligence. Nevertheless, AI has limitations in that it is artificial and not natural. In general, artificial systems require maintenance to be operable and efficient. One of the most contending topics regarding AI is the idea that AI will someday become hostile and attack people. Screenwriters and movie directors perpetrate this mythology. Many films and sensational articles have warned against a potential conflict between human and human intention, AI, or AI and NI.
Notable limitations of AI are:

Lacks the capacity to think ethically.
Can only operate based on how it is programmed.
Lacks natural independence.
Self-programmed and is dependent on the machine’s capacity.
The thinking process is artificial. It is not actual thinking; it is data processing.
AI can be hacked and shut down or rendered inoperable.
Is limited to its data entry and the extent of its learning sensors.
Access to vast information is no guarantee that the AI will always understand what it is reading.
AI technology is advanced and smart but can’t interpret all data.
AI may not operate without prior access to knowledge and program-related data.

In this text, we contend that AI could be dangerous because of its self-program features and ability to learn from its environment. Understandably, these machines can self-program and develop external skills. However, the extent to which the machine can function and adapt largely depends on its software and hardware construction. Any amount of danger that AI produces is primarily accidental. This text reiterated that AI devices are work tools or play tools. Just as we have developed airplanes, ships, tractors, trucks, cars, and bicycles to make life activities easier, we have also developed AI to reduce the burden of work and play when the occasion arises. Car manufacturers have not created cars with ethics, but the driver should have some ethical principles that guide his behavior. Similarly, the ethical use of AI is dependent on program developers.
AI technology has remarkably changed how we work, collect, and process information for organizations. For example, through AI technology, satellites can support GPS, Google Maps, and vehicle locators with real-time updates. However, there are no infinite artificial systems. Therefore, AI is limited by batteries, electricity, and solar energy. Furthermore, AI machines are driven by Wi-Fi, satellites, and internet technology. Hence, without the resources mentioned, AI has no operative functions.
Chapter Summary 
AI’s intervention in the workforce is a huge advantage in global businesses. It provides enormous benefits in speed, volume, task management, and greater productivity. Certainly, many workers have lost their jobs, and unemployment rates have increased in some areas; nevertheless, productive efficiency offers greater economic benefits to society than small reductions in hands-on jobs. Many routine and laborious tasks have been eliminated. The toll booth clerks have been replaced with E-ZPass. Robotic systems replace train conductors, and ATMs abound. Supermarkets and retail outlets have replaced cashiers with kiosk machines for self-checkouts.
Business leaders could potentially reduce the employment impact by reorganizing and retraining workers to occupy new AI-supporting roles. AI’s function depends mainly on human skills and interventions. Therefore, employers can provide new opportunities to workers by reinventing the human resources processes. AI needs NI because AI cannot fix itself once it breaks downs. AI cannot order and replace its own spare parts. Thus, AI technology is the tool of human workers and professionals.
Countries that export more than they import tend to have a viable workforce because exports drive production and expand employment. AI technology is useful in export-driven countries to help increase efficiency and generate output at a rapid pace. Many routine works are tedious and utilize a substantial amount of manpower. In such cases, AI technology can accomplish those tasks in a relatively short time with pinpoint accuracy. Also, employing AI in these situations costs less, resulting in increased profitability for exporters. Therefore, export-oriented countries tend to need advanced technology more as they strive to satisfy market demand. Undoubtedly, AI technology has changed how we communicate, travel, shop, bank, and engage our healthcare services. Indeed, more than 80% of our essential activities are digitized.
AI technology is critical in mass communication, online learning, FaceTiming, and online social gathering. In addition, AI technology has changed many homes into living and virtual workplaces. Human experiences are intertwined with technology, and AI technology creates systems that can interact verbally with humans. The ability to tell your device to do what you want it to do and the device fulfills the request is fascinating and convenient. Our modern workforce could not advance without AI because we have heavy objects to lift, steep inclines to negotiate, hazardous materials to handle, and dangerous missions on the battlefield to accomplish.
Through AI technology, users can seamlessly transfer money from accounts and pay bills from any part of the globe without setting foot into a bank or even making a single phone call. Further, AI technology enables videoconferencing, where individuals can sit, collaborate, and chat face-to-face in virtual chat rooms. Undoubtedly, AI technology has made remarkable contributions to the construction of smart cities and national security. People are safer with cameras rolling and capturing the misdeeds of criminals and unfortunate accidents. The progressive impact of AI technology is seen in daily activities, essential services, and businesses’ core competencies. Unfortunately, artificial intelligence (AI) and natural intelligence (NI) seem to be in conflict because AI has improved the workforce’s efficiency, resulting in job replacements. Interestingly, AI is humans’ desire for greater ease and productivity. Thus, conflict appears among those who do not recognize that industries continue to revolutionize. Hence, the type and quality of work tasks and career tracks continue to revolutionize.
Exercise Questions:

Through the advancement of AI technology, customer service is exceeding customers’ expectations. Explain how AI accounts for this innovative phenomenon.
AI-driven systems aid key tasks such as traffic-monitoring systems, solving street crimes, and locating stolen vehicles. Explain how AI is instrumental in these tasks.
Do you think that AI technology will gain preeminence over human workers in the future? If so, how?
Do you think AI technology-driven vehicles are safer than human-driven vehicles?
What is the potential cybersecurity risk of self-driving vehicles? What are the possible solutions?
Robots can count the items on the shelves of supermarkets and other retail enterprises and send the information to the relevant workers. The data sent by robots include item quantity, expired items, and items’ shelf-time. Do you think robotic information is more accurate than human workers?
Tiffany Wilson, a spokeswoman for Walmart, reiterated that the robots would not replace workers. Instead, robots allow employees more time to focus on customer service and sales. Do you agree or disagree?
Artificial intelligence (AI) is derived from natural intelligence (NI). AI cannot exist without NI because NI invented AI and must sustain AI lest AI becomes irrelevant. Explain in one or more paragraphs the concept of AI and NI.
List and explain four limitations of AI mentioned in the chapter.
Will AI disrupt the occupation path of human workers or improve human job performance?








CHAPTER ELEVEN
Big Data Risk, Identity Theft, and Internet Vulnerability
Introduction

Big data enterprises have magnified data risk. Big data enterprises have amassed billions of data for commercial and private purposes. The storing of extraordinary volumes of data on one network has created significant opportunities for data mishandling, privacy invasion, data leaks, data corruption, data loss, and data theft. Thus, criminal enterprises target big data corporations seeking to capitalize on these organizations’ potential vulnerability, given their enormous data resources. In this text, big data refers to the large volume of data collected worldwide by the private sector and governments and stored for commercial and personal purposes. For instance, governments collect big data through census, employment reports, and surveys to provide specific services in education, job creation, infrastructure, and national welfare services.
Big data is useful and has proven to help individuals, organizations, and governments make prudent and strategic decisions. However, the risk of data exposure is greater with large volumes than with lesser volumes in terms of protection. The potential for unauthorized access concerns online users whose sensitive information is stored on the servers of big data corporations. Data thieves are constantly on the prowl, seeking to breach the security of big data companies to steal customers’ data to use in their criminal endeavors. Big data organizations have collected data from various sources, including social network platforms, ClickPay, web searches, and the internet of things. Given that the internet of things involve a wide variety of devices; the opportunity to collects numerous data about users are vast. Collecting data from a comprehensive collection of devices connected to the internet increases the collection volume for big data enterprises with relative ease. Therefore, collecting and storing data have become a greater responsibility as storing and protecting such enormous volumes are very challenging. In addition, these devices provide convenience, such as the ability to adjust the temperature of homes and offices from devices and even use a smart doorbell camera to interact with individuals making deliveries.
Vulnerabilities exist with internet connections and the loss of a physical device that contains sensitive information. Public Wi-Fi connections are an area where cybercriminals lurk. Users should be aware of public Wi-Fi messages related to settings adjustments. Many points of vulnerability exist in smart devices that contain sensitive information to set up. Hackers just want to access this information. Many smart devices have subscriptions. Thus, the subscription is paid by credit card. In general, these credit card details are recorded on the device. Hackers may be able to access private information from these smart devices through Wi-Fi-enabled surge protectors due primarily to the limitations of encryption on some of these devices. Devices on internet networks are at risk of data breaches. Private information could be compromised due to multiuser-sharing activities.
Compromised data could lead to identity theft. Generally speaking, identity theft is the theft of personal information unique to an individual’s identity, such as Social Security numbers, mothers’ maiden names, and financial information. Admittedly, identity theft is a significant event because it is known to have permanently destroyed the credit of many victims. Many have suffered traumatically when experiencing an identity theft attack. Hackers sold stolen identities on the dark web, and crooks have used them to open credit accounts, bank accounts, apply for bank loans and mortgages … in the name of the victim. There are a variety of ways that cybercriminals may obtain an individual’s identity. The following are some methods used by cybercriminals to obtain individuals’ identities.

Big data breaches where millions of data are exposed or compromised
Stolen mail and wallets
Crooks fraudulently change the user’s physical address
Trash that contains valuable information such as bar codes, QR codes, and credit card banking or financial information
Through historical data that may have pertinent private information.

Indeed, to hold the responsibility as the stewards of big data is a tremendous task. Hence, proper precautions must be taken to securely collect, transmit, and store data.
The Purpose of Big Data and Identity Theft Analysis 
In this text, the author examines big data concerning identity theft to educate students, practitioners, and the public at large on the dangers of big data risks, internet vulnerability, and identity theft, as well as the ways digital technology and the World Wide Web have been used to perpetuate the progression of cybercrimes. The breach of private and personal data undermines personal privacy and is typically viewed as cyber-fraud. The invasion of personal privacy intends to inflict direct harm to individuals through intrusive means. Identity theft is an egregious act that has caused embarrassment, emotional distress, and reputational damage to the victim. Conventionally, privacy is an individual’s right to share what they choose to share about themselves and reserve what they decide not to share.
This text has reiterated that identity theft is an age-old practice. Nevertheless, digital technology and smart devices have vastly enhanced their practice. It is well established that modern technological evolution has enabled criminals to develop new strategies to access personal information and exploit unsuspecting internet users. In general, data breaches tend to occur on a large scale. Usually, a big data corporation like Google stores millions of customers’ private data. If hackers could not trade and widely distribute the stolen information, there would be little or no concern. However, there is a ready market for stolen data on the dark web. Vendors wait to acquire stolen information to open bank accounts and other transactions under another person’s identity.
The introduction of illegal websites, known as “carding forums,” devoted to selling and acquiring stolen personal information, has opened the field of data theft to cybercriminals to engage in their illegal activities with little fear of personal consequences. Unfortunately, the global scale of the dissemination of stolen information has been made possible due to the thriving underground market. Big data storage is mainly responsible for the threat that users face. Data collection, storage, and dissemination allow a vast amount of information to float on the web and become vulnerable. Big data is more than communicating, collecting, and storing information for marketing purposes. In fact, the premise for big data is that a vaster body of information provides a more excellent access to knowledge.
Knowledge in power and information aids knowledge. The availability of information may lead to extraordinary benefits for research and development, science, as well as academic pursuits. Conversely, lacking a body of information could lead to national security, under investments, inadequate planning, and uninformed decisions. The challenge confronting big data organizations is to create a structure that can protect the inordinate amount of data they possess. Risk management should be a lead item on the priority list of organizations’ strategic agendas. Value and risk assessment are critical determining factors for adequate security. By knowing the information asset value, management can see the risk exposure. Different specialized and organizational variables could impact the plan and execution of the management information team. Thus, effectively managing and mitigating the hazards could be undermined, resulting in the potential cost of big data management systems. 
There are methods and systems to protect users against identity theft within electronic communication systems. These systems allow third-party vendors to confirm their identities with their unique credentials to reduce the chance of unauthorized access. In addition, a system identifier exists that works in terms of mapping users’ consumption patterns and lifestyles to protect users’ identities. Users may acquire a customer identifier to manage their on-line activities. The identifier will flag any activity inconsistent with the customer’s general activities and alert the users of potential fraud. Indeed, the identifier provides an added layer of security from credit and debit cards’ unauthorized use.
Problems With Big Data Security
The problem with big data is primarily security. The large volume of data converged in one place presents a daunting challenge for dissemination management. Also, big data is not just sitting in storage facilities; big data is actively being shared and accessed by multiple agents. The dynamic use of big data creates a high risk of data theft. The ability to securely manage a large volume of data that is constantly being analyzed, updated, and shared is subject to vulnerability. Big data plays a significant role in areas of future technology in that the availability of information helps technologists understand trends. Additionally, the large volume of data collected through multiple sources provides useable ideas to make changes and test the capabilities of new technology.
Users of big data should consider security and privacy risks as they engage in the sharing of information. Data security may vary depending on whether the data is structured or unstructured. Users should ensure that the data they share is sourced from a reliable entity. The dynamics of information force pull information from different sources, including online and offline, giving rise to some vulnerability levels. In many cases, unorganized data may be infested with viruses. Then the users risk infection in the sorting and organizing process. Certainly, there is a tremendous amount of pure and usable unorganized data; however, users should approach these data sources cautiously. Unorganized data may produce immense insights, especially if the data is researched and collected by a direct source.
Big Data Problems Considered:

Safe storage
Safe access
Data corruption
Data loss
Data theft
Data integrity
Data reliability
Data vulnerability
Data breaches
Computer viruses

It is imperative that big data managers and users seriously consider these issues. Since data is regarded as an essential commodity in the paradigm shift, it must be treated with the utmost care. Hence, special efforts should be made for safe storage and dissemination. Furthermore, for data to achieve its goals, users must have secure access; otherwise, the process is futile. Also, big data managers have a responsibility to store data securely to prevent data corruption.
Corrupted data has lost its value. Notably, corrupted data provide misinformation that leads to bad decision-making. Data loss is dangerous because it could be in the possession of criminals exploiting it for illegal purposes. The theft of personal and private data seriously impacts the information owner in terms of emotional and financial costs. Data users always want to know that the data they use to predict trends, analyze processes, and make fundamental decisions meets the integrity protocol. Unreliable data has the potential to produce false outputs and give false assurances.
E-FileCabinets and Data Safety
eFileCabinet is a storage system allowing users to store their data in digital files and folders on a designated area of their network system or computers. eFileCabinet can be external. An example of eFileCabinet is cloud storage. Another problem with big data is that it cannot be stored in big filing cabinets like traditional data storage systems. Thus, the emergence of an eFileCabinet. Big data must be stored online through an electronic medium authorized users can access. A suitable and advanced eFileCabinet is a cloud-based storage system. The cloud storage system allows data users access if they have the required credentials. Additionally, big data has sensitive and personal information that is vulnerable. Tremendous amounts of confidential data are at risk of data breaches due to advanced hacking technology and inadequate storage systems.
Unfortunate incidents could be avoided if internet users knew the risks involved in their online activities. Big data is as safe as users make it be. Careless use of login credentials and neglect to observe procedural protocols are the cause of some data breaches. The more users educate themselves regarding online risks, the less vulnerable big data will be. Users should be aware that their identities could be stolen if they engage in unsecured browsing, use public Wi-Fi, and leave their devices open. In addition, users should be alerted that once hackers access their information, that information will be sold on the dark web, where the criminal will use it to open credit card lines and steal money from the owners’ bank accounts.
Unquestionably, the internet has vast expansion and offers a comprehensive source of information. In many cases, users can find almost anyone and anything by searching the World Wide Web. However, any data a person enters on the internet is stored and cannot be deleted. Even when the user deletes the data, it appears deleted on the surface but is stored in the background beyond the reach of the users. Therefore, users should be mindful of the fact that any information that the user wants to be kept confidential and private should not be entered on the internet.
Theory and Approach of Big Data Application
Big data organizations utilize programs that help manage their data assets’ dissemination, retrieval, and storage. Some of the programs that aid the management of big data are:

SQL. This domain-specific language is used in programming and manages streaming data.
NoSQL. It is a NoSQL database that provides a mechanism for storing and retrieving data.
Apache Hadoop software library. This framework is designed for the distributed processing of large data sets across multiple computer systems.

Corporation leaders who utilize these technologies should be aware that some software is developed to handle big data; however, much of this software is known as open-source software. Scholars have reported that approximately 150 different NoSQL databases are available for use. Unfortunately, many of these databases are open source, which means that the source code is publicly available for modification by any knowledgeable program developers, including hackers. Therefore, security considerations should be prioritized due to the critical nature of big data.
The cybersecurity team of big data organizations should carefully examine the quality of software that they acquire to handle big data. The NoSQL databases can handle large, unstructured data sets. It is necessary to evaluate this software before installing it on your network. An evaluation of third-party companies is essential since many breaches occur through this stream. Using open-source software creates vulnerability. Therefore, users should be cognizant that multiple layers of security are required to protect the data from unauthorized users. Admittedly, it is difficult to protect an open source; nevertheless, a concerted effort may mitigate serious damages in the event of a data breach.
Numerous concerns regarding network systems’ security exist, mainly because multiple users use networks. In general, a multiuser system is vulnerable because of the difficulty of ensuring that all users follow security procedures. Therefore, network systems need vigilant supervision to guard against careless uses that could create opportunities for data breaches. In addition to supervising personnel, network systems should be layered with strong defensive systems to mitigate threats. Firewalls must be tested, updated, and password protected to ensure data safety.
A talented cybersecurity team can implement a wide range of security policies to control information flow and prevent unpredictable potential intrusion damages. Cybersecurity developers have developed powerful firewalls with intrusion protection systems (IPS) and intrusion detection systems (IDS). These firewalls are capable of withstanding hacking trials and attempts. In addition, they send alerts to the users whenever an attempt is made. The IPS enables the firewall to analyze network traffic, capture known patterns, assess network anomalies, and take specific defensive actions. When the IPS detects a possible breach, it will act by changing the network settings to reduce the possibility of unauthorized access. The artificial intelligence functionality built into these advanced firewalls enables added security and provides assurance to big data users.
The IDS is similar to the IPS in many ways. IDS analyzes network traffic for characteristics that match known cyberattacks, and IPS analyzes network traffic for known traits. Still, IPS has additional functionality that enables it to prevent cyberattacks from occurring. IDS analyzes and sends alerts but does not counteract the network attacks. In other words, IDS logs the information and alerts network administrators so that they can take relevant actions. Hence, IPS and IDS analyze the data in real time to keep network administrators constantly informed regarding attempted intrusions. Using IDS and IPS helps network administrators operate with the knowledge and constant awareness of network safety instead of operating in ignorance of the dangers waiting to attack.
Interestingly, even with the most advanced technological systems and technical procedures designed to offer ironclad security, network administrators are still faced with a potential weak point. The possible weak point is human inconsistency in following security policies. A network security system is as good as those who manage and use it daily. To maintain a robust security system, the users should cultivate a purposeful sense of network security. Big data cybersecurity administrators’ strategic efforts to analyze, process, refine, and make information useful and safe largely depend on the security system’s strength as a whole.
Cybersecurity administrators should conduct a comprehensive defense against network security breaches by holding organizations’ workers responsible for security lapses when procedural adherence is ignored. Workshops and cybersecurity training should be ongoing, not just for security personnel but for all workers. An awareness of data security contributes to an effective network security system and protects big data from cybercriminals. Workers could protect their big data assets by understating that they should not do the following:

Click on unknown links
Visits unauthorized websites
Download personal files on organizations’ networks
Open personal emails on job computers

A unified vigilance may comprehensively enhance the effectiveness of virus prevention and cybersecurity control. In addition, regularly scheduled scanning of workers’ computers may help to reduce the risk of intrusions from a worker’s computer. Further, the public should be integral to the education and training process because public users or customers regularly log in to organizations’ systems. For instance, a university network allows students, faculty, and staff to access critical data. If these users are unaware of security protocols, they could expose the university’s network to grave risks of data breaches.
Big data combines massive datasets with rich sources of usable data. Big data assets make them a valuable target for hackers who can profit in an extraordinary way by trading stolen information on the dark web. Because big data organizations keep data on large datasets, authorized access by cybercriminals could enable the thief to capture and store data that could be worth substantial amounts of money. Identity theft is a lucrative endeavor in the underground enterprise system. Many illegal operatives surf the dark web searching for stolen identity data to purchase. Stolen identity allows criminals to assume the identity of others and gain access to other people’s resources without being caught. Data encryption is one of the ways to protect big data; however, due to the dynamic use and expansiveness of the data, encryption is not always possible. Further, encryption could reduce efficiency as it can sometimes be a time-consuming event.
Cybersecurity administrators, in some cases, set up encryption control of specific confidential and sensitive data by using the encryption algorithm and program codes to transform the plaintext data, convert the data into ciphertext, and enable an encryption mechanism that encrypts the information as well as secures the data during the dissemination process. Therefore, cybercrooks who gain unauthorized access to sensitive information will not be able to view or use the information. Encryption enables data in transit to be securely transported without the risk of data theft. Encryption may be defined as the process of converting information or data into codes that make the data unreadable without authorized conversions.
There are no developed standards to secure data that are available for public use; however, there are policies and protocols developed by corporations in conjunction with governments to provide some levels of safety. Policies and protocols established are:

Unique login credentials
Time-sensitive text or email codes
Authentic user verification, such as, “Are you a robot?”
Phone call verification
Frequent password updates

Big data organizations must assess their threats to determine risk levels and vulnerabilities. When organizations know the threats against their network systems, they can implement countermeasures to combat the threat and mitigate the risk of exposure or breach. For example, many big data organizations like Google have employed hackers, namely, White Hat hackers, to hack their systems in search of loopholes and security weak points. Once a weak point is discovered, measures are taken immediately to patch or repair the system. In general, the process is seamless.
The Limitations of Big Data Security
Big data allows the rapid dissemination of data for users’ access. Anywhere the internet is, the global resources of big data are available to inform processes and provide rich, researched information that enhances product quality. Some of the limitations of big data are:

Difficult to secure data
Unable to protect users’ privacy
Cannot control internal theft
Difficult to ascertain the real value
Difficult to manage efficiently
Multilanguage translation errors
Data analytics
Data corruption and data efficacy
Ethics and integrity

The volumes of big data have reached beyond the ability of big data organizations to manage efficiently. Therefore, the capacity to capture, store, and analyze the wide range of available raw, unstructured, semistructured, and unstructured data is beyond the manageability of modern organizations. There are several limitations associated with big data sources, such as the information they store and manage may not be valuable to the public. Another limitation of big data is that it may facilitate identity theft by amassing and storing data in a central location. Undoubtedly, big data provides an avenue for identity theft by collecting and storing sensitive information like date of birth, Social Security number, and credit and debit card information. In addition, big data allows sharing and using data that may expose users’ data to unauthorized access.
Summary
Big data has afforded the global community to have access to raw data and information that are educational as well as informative. The education component of big data allows students, faculty, avid readers, and researchers to gather and share valuable information. Big data contributes to a more knowledgeable and informed society. Through the invention of big data, users can access information readily through their mobile devices. Individuals can make informed decisions because they can easily access the answer to any desired information. On the other hand, the centralized storage of a vast volume of information may have given rise to identity theft.
Identity theft has escalated significantly as big data expanded throughout the globe. Certainly, there is a correlation between identity theft and big data. The growth of e-commerce, where customers are required to share their sensitive information online to make their purchases or pay for requested services, has created several data banks with rich data that can be accessed by unauthorized individuals who desire to trade the personal information of others illegally. E-commerce has enabled corporations to amass large volumes of data used daily by workers. Many data thefts have occurred by an internal staff member. The storage of large volumes of data in a central system has created opportunities for internal and external cybercriminals. The internet has an inherent vulnerability because it is an open source.
Internet vulnerability occurs because many related internet systems are web-based. Web-based applications may encounter Log4j vulnerability. Hackers can use Log4j in an application to remotely access an organization’s network. The internet is an open source; therefore, it is difficult to secure. Despite the difficulties, cybersecurity developers have developed firewalls and systems that can detect unauthorized attacks and alert cybersecurity administrators. The emergence of multilayered cybersecurity systems has dramatically reduced internet vulnerabilities. Furthermore, internet users have become aware of its vulnerability and are willing to establish relevant protections.
Online transactions expansion has become pervasive in light of the World Wide Web. Unfortunately, extensive internet use increases vulnerability due to storage volume and procedure neglect. All internet users are vulnerable to privacy loss due to harvesting and sharing customers’ data for marketing and research purposes. The transition from traditional data processing to electronic and digital processing has increased vulnerability, but the introduction of robust firewalls may lessen the impact of the vulnerability. Big data is stored in a physical location because the server system is located at a business entity. Cloud data is stored on a central mainframe at a physical location. Cloud storage is a digital storage system that can enable users to access their data anywhere, but the information exists on the service provider’s computer networks.
Undoubtedly, identity theft remains a grave concern for many users, especially those victimized. As previously mentioned, there are many ways hackers and fraudsters can steal users’ identities. Some of the ways identity thieves steal users’ identities are data breaches, unsecured browsing, stolen passwords, viruses, the dark web, malware activity, credit card theft, email links, postal mail theft, public Wi-Fi, and card skimming. Therefore, internet users should take charge of their cybersecurity by being vigilant, following security measures, protecting passwords, and avoiding ATMs where they do not feel safe. In addition, they should use all relevant security systems to safeguard their information assets.
Exercise Questions:

List four ways cybercriminals can obtain an individual’s identity.
What are some of the problems big data face? How can big data solve these problems?
Big data organizations utilize programs that help manage their data assets’ dissemination, retrieval, and storage. What are the three programs that aid the management of big data mentioned in the chapter?
In one or more paragraphs, list and explain two ways workers could protect their big data assets.
No developed standards to secure data are available for public use. However, there are policies and protocols developed by corporations in conjunction with governments to provide some levels of safety. What are some of the policies and protocols established in this chapter?
List and explain three limitations of big data.
Is securing data a limitation of big data? If so, explain in one or more paragraphs.
Big data has afforded the global community access to raw data and information that are educational as well as informative. So what role do big data companies play?
Identity theft has escalated significantly as big data expanded throughout the globe. Why is this the case? Is there any correlation between big data escalation and identity theft?
The emergence of multilayered cybersecurity systems has dramatically reduced internet vulnerabilities. Explain the functions of multilayered cybersecurity.








CHAPTER TWELVE
Social Network and Digital Security Challenges
Introduction and Background of Social Networks and Digital Security Challenges
Social networks in organizations have become more popular as the internet reaches more geographic centers of the world. Social network organizations have gained global prominence over the past two decades and attract people from every economic stratum. The desire to share life experiences with friends and family even though they reside in another country or continent has become ever more gratifying in the light of social network real-time connections.
Social media networks such as Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, YouTube, and Instagram have grown enormously over the past two decades due to the number of users who have found this technological communication system helpful. In addition, instant messaging, FaceTiming, and voice messaging have contributed to the global escalation of social networks. In this textbook, the author considers social media as the collection of internet-based websites where users can share, interact, and collaborate. The primary goal of social media is to promote personal and business-focused interactions among users.
Social networks have become an integral part of the daily communication systems that drive enterprise social network information, such as Confluence, IBM Connections, Jive, Slack, SharePoint, and Yammer. In addition, enterprise social networks play an essential role in the emergence of structural workspaces and virtual home office establishments. Social networks have their origins centuries ago when individuals began to form private social clubs and sororities to share common interests, ideas, and interactions. The concept later emerged as computer technology provided interconnections, and the World Wide Web created global interconnectivity.
The emergence of social networks has vastly enhanced the progress of marketing. Through social networks, businesses and clients can interact more efficiently in terms of product offerings as well as service deliveries. Social media presents a remarkable change in the communication structure of companies, and individuals are set up within a social networking framework. The security and protection of users are given priority as social media platforms become the primary center of business transactions. Understandably, as social network development advances and expands, the potential for mischief becomes a part of the natural process. Potential issues include the misuse of personal and sensitive information by illegal operatives. Unfortunately, social network users have experienced identity thefts, data breaches, cybersecurity threats, computer viruses, and privacy invasions. Notwithstanding these, social networks have created immense benefits for users regarding social enrichment.
Social networks have changed how we get our daily news and learn about world events. News that would reach a typical person in two to three weeks we now see in real time. Also, social networks have become a new way of sharing, communicating, and marketing customers. Employers and employees have become more socially connected. Many barriers have broken down as people of like interests are connected. The interconnectivity of social networks helps to set trends in fashion, music, diet, and many other lifestyle activities, thus, promoting commerce, entertainment, and wellness. Unquestionably, social networks have provided new opportunities for research, education, and economic expansion.
Over the past decade, the evolution of the World Wide Web has led to the significant growth of online social networks. The vast number of users on social media platforms has attracted businesses. Indeed, business owners have increased their opportunities to exploit social media platforms with marketing information strategies to gain market shares from the rich subscriber base. Social networks can provide businesses with valuable information relating to the supply chain, customer service, employee search, market competition, and sales and services. Modern information systems allow firms to process and use information quickly to capitalize on potential benefits. New information provides market executives with insight into market needs. As more businesses adopt to the digital process; the transaction rates of business have escalated due to increase business transactions.
The evolution of social media has been driven by the availability of interconnectivity apparatuses that enables free audiovisual communication, particularly in real time. Early technological social network benefited from the connection of computers and telephone transmissions. However, in recent times, social network is powered by mobile and digital technologies. The Bulletin Board System supported by telephones has been replaced with wireless technologies that produce clearer, more dynamic information. Social networks have developed their own characteristics and language.
Purpose of Social Networks and Digital Security Challenges 

Web-based media has become the most persuasive and significant virtual space where the stage is set to utilize personal and interpersonal interaction. One post can attract countless individuals who find the post informative or entertaining. The reaction to social network posts could be very favorable; posts that add value to the viewer could promote a business and open a door of opportunity for the promoter. In addition, a social network post may reduce the cost of advertising as individuals can reach a large audience by posting marketable content on their websites and social network pages. The ability to reach a broad audience is remarkable, given the expansiveness of social network platforms. The social network is rich with information from television news, newspapers, magazines, and numerous digital sources. Therefore, the potential to acquire new clients or to hone on existing clients is extraordinary. The agility of digital networks makes them desirable to users.
Digital networks are comprised of social networks built through digital technologies to drive digital systems and simultaneously support digital transmissions of voice, video, data, and applicable network services. In other words, digital networks are communication websites that enable social interactions and contextual collaborations. In this framework, user-created content elicits inquiry, provides useable information, and assists with building a knowledge base. The cache of data and information available on social media has attracted stakeholders, including researchers, academia, marketers, and scammers. The dynamic structure of digital networks has impacted all facets of human lives regarding audiovisual information dissemination.
The introduction of social networks has given rise to numerous new businesses. Some of these businesses provide support to social network organizations. Also, many nascent companies are born on social media networks and depend on social network systems for sustainability. Social networks help many businesses to grow through access to a significant customer presence. In addition, social networks promote brand awareness and help maintain brand loyalty. Social media showcasing will magnify the visibility of a new product line and establish an organization’s mission. Also, the social media network is known to increase business traffic, expand business markets, and boost sales performances.
The sustainability of online communities depends mainly on the quality of the social network platform. Online communities use the social network to engage in personal marketing. Although many users use the network to socialize, some socialize to acquire new businesses and promote their careers. Thus, social media is used as a marketing tool. The vast assortment of information on social media enables online communities to share knowledge and exchange research outcomes. Amid the tremendous benefits that are aligned with social networks, users face the threat of cybersecurity. Users risk having their identity stolen and their resources plundered by online criminal operatives. An underlying danger is associated with social networks and online activities. However, users’ awareness is mitigating the severity of the impact when following safety procedures.
The danger that users face may be the dissemination of information. In some cases, too much private information is shared that gives clues to cybercriminals. For example, burglars search online for information about people they use to break into homes, steal cars, or plunder their finances. In addition, hackers are searching the World Wide Web for information that they can use to access users’ bank accounts and financial papers. Also, scammers are searching for information to trick unsuspecting users into sharing their identities so that thieves can access the users’ resources. Therefore, if users share their information with a stricter sense of security, the level of security breaches they encounter may decrease.
Many communities have a bully that preys on the rights of others, often the weak. Similarly, social networks have online communities with cyberbullies that prey on the rights of others. Although individuals should feel comfortable using social networks in their private space, they cannot always feel comfortable due to the threat of cyberbullies. Cyberbullies use social networks to slander and sometimes share incorrect information about others, harming their reputations. Comments made online cannot be deleted. Of course, the account holder or the hosting organization can delete them from the immediate view of an audience. Still, those comments are saved on cybernetwork servers and are visible to technicians and other internal technological audiences. Therefore, users should be mindful of their private and public words and activities on online forums. Even an innocent comment could become slanderous. Thus, users should be thoughtful as they express themselves online.
The creation of formal and informal online communities has populated cyberspace. Organizations and individuals have created online network communities where they can gather virtually and share common interests. These online communities include family and friends groups, professional occupational groups, religious groups, human rights groups, student groups, and organized crime groups. Users should be aware that many groups exist with their private agendas. Understandably, formal and informal organizations share different types of information and appeal to diverse audiences. Within the confluence of this dynamic system, there is the uttermost need for security. The threat of cybersecurity breaches becomes greater with the confluence of communities and agendas. Hence, users should share and engage in their online communities with ethical and responsible behaviors.
One of the reasons for the use of computerized security is to protect the digital resources of users. Cybersecurity experts have reiterated that malware products are openly accessible to anyone who desires to acquire them to engage in digital crimes. Given the pervasive openness of harmful cybersecurity tools, users are required to install layers of digital security on online devices to defend against unauthorized and malicious access. Any lapse in digital security could result in the breach of sensitive information.
Cybercriminals utilize an assortment of foundational information to gain access to the security systems of interpersonal organizations. Sometimes, the criminal may join the organization to get familiar with the processes and how the system interfaces. When criminals use organizations’ information, it is easier for them to deceive the members as they are in the place of a trusted source. Therefore, these criminals tend to gather pertinent information from reliable sources. In that way, their activities appear legitimate to the unsuspecting victim.
Social networks have become shopping platforms as many businesses have set up payment portals to conduct business on social networks. In today’s social network proliferation, users have encountered advertisers who offer huge sales incentives, discounts, and lower prices on name-brand products and services. E-commerce is booming on social network platforms. They brought a whole new concept of how events are conducted and how audiences are marketed. Given that almost all events are streaming live, the quality and arrangement of events have been reshaped to be camera-ready. Social networks have brought a sense of simplicity to broadcasting. Anyone with a smartphone can video and broadcast an event on the national and global stage without formal training. The more we engage in digital activities, the greater the need for digital security. Fortunately, there is no shortage of digital security systems. Digital security systems are available in many styles, prices, and sizes. In other words, all digital users can find a digital security system to help manage potential digital security challenges.
Digital data is a valuable commodity in the digital world because of its ability to transmit and reach audiences at a rapid pace. Therefore, users should be intentional about protecting their digital data. Here, we review 10 ways users can protect their digital assets from unauthorized exposure.

List and keep an inventory of your digital assets
Assess and determine the value of your data and establish legal ownership
Limit users’ access and follow written protocols
Use copyright laws and protective agreements to avoid false claims against your assets
Register the information in a unique way that will identify your ownership
Keep data secure with cybersecurity protection and physical locks
Insure your data against potential damage or loss
Back up your data on internal and external sources
Document the standard procedures that you have established as a policy
Upgrade digital security systems at least twice per year

Social networking has become an integral part of the marketing plan for global enterprises. Social media helps enhance client communication, increase brand recognition, and scale sales performances. With more than 3 billion people connecting and interacting on social media monthly in the global community, the opportunity to achieve business scalability is extraordinary.
The progression in online media utilization has given a new dynamism to advertising techniques in that advertising is more customized than ever. The increased employment opportunities in online media such as Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, and Twitter are remarkable. The emerging new generation has been drawn into web-based media. Hence, it expands the level of users engaged in distributing public digital messages. The pervasive use of public digital messaging denotes that brand-related coordinated efforts and showcasing design are logically happening on web-based media forums.
The progression of advanced digital systems has fundamentally shifted the paradigm of organizations’ frameworks. Buyers and sellers are now conducting business through online media and eWOM correspondence. Likewise, customers’ behaviors have changed fundamentally because of the digital development of handheld gadgets that add to how users connect and utilize social businesses. The expanding utilization of digitalized advertising and web-based media has definitely impacted customers’ shopping experiences as e-commerce drives the volume of transactions.
Notwithstanding the productivity and efficiency of digitalized systems, consumers are bombarded and burdened with unwanted advertising, which is often intrusive. The constant pop-ups and sudden appearance of advertisements on individuals’ office and mobile devices have become annoying. Even when users engage in private and personal activities, they are faced with unwelcome advertising invading their personal space. Some equipment and devices have hidden software that constantly prompts users to upgrade, purchase, or add new features to the device that do not improve the use of the device; instead, these prompts are invisible marketing tools. Digital systems greatly enhance human services in one sense while creating nuisances in other respects. Certainly, no system comes with all the advantages. There are always disadvantages. Thus, for digital systems, the disadvantages are cybersecurity vulnerability, unwelcome advertising, invasion of privacy, and the installation of secret prompting mechanisms designed as marketing tools.
Organizations have acquired their own social media accounts and share their websites to capitalize on the immense number of users that hold social media accounts. They do so to gain a social network presence. A social network presence is essential for organizations because users are consumers and potential business opportunities. Therefore, organizations acquire social account networks with web-based social network organizations such as Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter to share marketable information and promote their product image. In some ways, incorporating social networks as part of a corporation profile gives the organization a personable image.
One of the benefits of social network engagements for corporations is that their customers get a chance to follow the organization and learn about new products, the corporation’s strategy, and some of the corporation’s community-based activities. In other words, by following the organization, the customer may know more about the organization and not merely about the organization’s products and services. In addition, the chain effect is another benefit. That is, each customer has a friend who gets exposed to the information feed of one another. Therefore, the connection of friends may increase the potential for new business opportunities.
As users engage in online sharing and interactions, they should be mindful of the potential danger of online activities. Sharing and interacting will be a productive experience when users use their information safely and securely. In sharing information, online users should watch out for links and emails that may imitate their friends’ emails. Cybersecurity experts recommend that users consult with each other when email links are suspicious. Before opening an email link, the user should consult with the sender to ensure that the source is verified. Many scammers and hackers can create emails resembling a trusted source’s email. By verifying the email source, the user reduces the risk of data breaches and identity theft.
Marketers have realized that success is phenomenal when social network advertising is planned strategically. A social network presence is an effective way of driving online traffic. Because friends share information they find interesting with their friends on social network organizations, organizations that maintain a social network presence reap enormous benefits from free advertising. Due to the popularity of social networks, many organizations can make announcements to their employees and customers without paying for ads on radios and televisions. The association with social networks keeps organizations relevant in that management, employees, and customers are interconnected and share helpful information on one platform. Management has an opportunity to see and hear the comments of customers and can devise direct strategies that may please the customers as well as enhance customer service.
Social networks have created business opportunities for bloggers, home businesses, and large organizations with remarkable advertising and marketing budget reductions. One of the keys to establishing a business is promotion. Many companies have struggled for years because of the lack of promotion. They have outstanding products, but very few customers are aware of them; thus, sales are minimal, and the ability to scale is challenging. Social networks have removed the impediment of a lack of promotion. Hence, these nascent businesses have gained popularity because of their ability to promote their products to a potentially broad customer base.
Every business can reach new customers without a significantly large budget in today’s social network era. Therefore, whether an organization has a simple or heavily funded spending plan for advertising does not necessarily mean it will drive more traffic. Customers tend to gravitate to a business where they can engage and express themselves at some level of interpersonal interactions, especially if customers know that they are receiving attention from the organization’s management team. Photos and social activities are effective ways of building connections with customers. Customers tend to relate to these communication methods easily. Of course, a picture is worth a thousand words. Most people can read images easily because pictures provide graphic displays of reality without the trouble of written information that requires the viewer to read and interpret. The social network has changed the advertising paradigm by engaging the use of photos without words to communicate to potential customers. Online retailers such as Amazon, Target, Walmart, and eBay have used pictures instead of words to market their products. So, why is a picture display so effective? Picture displays are effective because they:

Are Simple: They do not require a lot of editing and formatting.
Are Eye-catching: A fine picture grabs the viewer’s attention very quickly.
Have Direct Appeal: A picture enables the viewer to make a quick decision.
Are Unique: Pictures highlight subtle differences that may interest the viewers.
Are a Storyteller: Pictures tell stories, such as elegance, class, or emotional states.
Are Compelling: Pictures have the capabilities to pull the viewer into the experience.
Are a Choice Facilitator: Pictures assist the viewer in making the best choice in terms of color or size.

The Importance of Social Networks and Digital Security Challenges 
Innovation
Social networks have provided an immense channel for innovators to explore and develop new technological and nontechnological products. Some of the nontechnology products those innovators have been exploring are foods, nutrition, health, and beauty products. Furthermore, social networks provide a ready market for sample testing, questionnaires, surveys, and feedback. The vast digital resources of social networks offer quick response times, wide and varying viewpoints, as well as critical data analytics for strategic decision-making.
Interestingly, social networks are equipped with features that can assist innovators with data collection and analytics, which are helpful for product assessment. In addition, social networks facilitate research and development at a low cost. Researchers can conduct their research remotely, thus making the process easy, convenient, and less time-consuming. Respondents are likely to respond favorably to surveys concerning product research due to the relatively easy process. Researchers can set up online test groups to facilitate their research without the hassle of packaging and mailing. In the case of incentive offers, the researcher can email secure payment links or QR Codes. Indeed, social networks create a one-stop shop for research and development. 
Job Search and Employment Opportunities
Social networks such as LinkedIn Corporation provide a valuable service, especially to professionals who do not have a vast network. LinkedIn is a social network business and employment service that allows professionals and employers to connect and share résumés and job openings. Nowadays, most potential candidates use online and personal networks to look for employment opportunities that fit their qualifications and backgrounds. Social business networks like LinkedIn and others help professionals around the globe to find suitable job matches, most of which they can do without leaving their homes or country. Indeed, social networks and digital technology have done a remarkable job by opening the world of employment opportunities for people who once had no hope of ever using their unique talents due to limited options in their homelands.
Employers can get better talent at affordable costs. A wide variety of talent in the employment marketplace creates a competitive employment market pool of professional resources. Therefore, this knowledge alerts employees to stay focused and continues to reengine themselves to remain in their position. Also, this information informs employers that if they do not create the right work environment and compensation package, they could lose valuable human resources. Some countries in the Caribbean, Africa, Asia, and Europe have a vast pool of talent underutilized because of a lack of opportunities. The emergence of social network business and employment services has paved the way for this talent pool to be showcased and eventually find placement in some of the most prominent and influential organizations, such as Apple, Google, Samsung, Walmart, Amazon, and Alibaba.
Small and New Business Survival in Explosive Social Network Marketplaces
New and small businesses have a high level of failure rates. According to data from the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, about 20% of US small businesses failed in the first 12 months. While large corporations dominate a significantly larger share of the market, smaller and newer companies struggle to find their way into the marketplace. Many new and small businesses quickly lack sustainability as they operate on limited resources. In general, customers tend to lean toward large corporations to make their purchases. Big corporations are reliable, consistent, and have the resources to protect the customer’s order and information assets. Customers tend to be skeptical of small organizations because some small and new organizations are inexperienced, lack resources, and provide poor customer service. Many new and small businesses do not conduct market research or even conduct a feasibility study before launching their business in the marketplace. Many nascent companies were largely unknown to customers.
Recently, social networks have given nascent businesses free exposure to the global marketplace. However, many small businesses have not developed a strategic approach to deliver their business offerings. In addition, many small and new companies have not conducted a sample test to get feedback from customers and potential customers about the efficacy of their products before commercially launching into the marketplace. Thus, they produce products that do not meet quality standards and cannot meet customers’ satisfaction.
Products that meet customers’ satisfaction will generate repeat purchases. Once a product meets the customers’ satisfaction, the customers will spread the word among their network, which may generate additional sales. The growth of businesses depends mainly on repeat purchases. Thus, customer service aims to retain customers and have them return to make regular purchases. To expand the market share, nascent business leaders should conduct satisfaction-oriented surveys to give management an insight into what customers think concerning the product in terms of adjustments and modifications. Truly, products are not made for business owners. They are made for the customers. Therefore, what the customers say and think about the product is critical to its success of the product. Even though we are talking about products, the same concept is relevant to services. New and small business owners should be intentional about exceeding the needs of their customers. It is a fact that the customer is king. Therefore, the customer’s treatment in terms of customer relationships, ambience, and product availability will determine the development of customer loyalty.
Setting Business Goals in the Social Network Paradigm
The main priority of a new business owner should be to conduct market research. Market research is critical to the business’s success because it produces vital information for strategic decision-making. Indeed, many new companies would have started out on firmer grounds if the owners were aware of information that would inform their decision-making. Social network memberships do not replace market research. Market research plays a pivotal role in helping to guide business owners in the direction that will maximize their investment returns. Therefore, market research helps business owners to set attainable goals. Using current business statistics is crucial because it helps to establish ideal and accurate projections for future expectations. Also, business analytics help to guide business owners to filter ideas and choose the most sustainable options.
The Customization of Advertisements on Social Network Platforms
New and small businesses tend to have limited marketing budgets. In many cases, this puts them in a disadvantaged position, given the high cost of advertising. Nevertheless, social networks have eased that burden due to the considerable free access to potential customers, free digital marketing tools, and the availability of market research across industries. Businesses must use market research to maximize their marketing ideas and assess their business offerings. Market research is a helpful tool that provides business owners with market trends and customers’ expectations. Online advertisers have used digital programs such as cookies and other tools to collect user data, pertinent information like demographic data, interests, and lifestyles. Once advertisers or marketers collect this data, they can customize ads that may appeal to the targeted audience.
Social Networks’ Influence on Digital Marketing Trends
Social network users are at the cutting edge of market trends. Identifying the latest market trends in any industry is available to “like,” affirm, and write comments. Small and new enterprises (SMEs) can use social media platforms to create their own trends on a relatively low budget. SMEs can set their own trend by discovering what customers want and developing product offerings that uniquely appeal to their social network customer base.
Digital Risk and Social Network Fraud Protection Challenges
Digital Security is a vital factor in using social networks. Unfortunately, the vast system of social networks involving users has cybercriminals prepared to steal the personal information of others concerning their dedicated business activities. Therefore, users should always be vigilant while using social network platforms. They should install cybersecurity programs that monitor their activities and report unauthorized attempts or strange transactions. These programs allow users to use the internet and social media with confidence, knowing they are protected from identity theft and fraud. Digital security means users should take the necessary precautionary measures to safeguard their online footprints. Users can protect their data assets by not providing valuable information where others have easy access. Users must be aware of the types of information they own that are considered valuable. Some examples of this are:

Full name
Current and past addresses
Bank account information
Mother’s maiden name
Email address
Date of birth
Credit card information
Login credentials
Passwords
Photos

Any information used to identify a user can be stolen and used to assist cybercriminals in their identity theft efforts. Online cybercrimes are increasing as social network users engage in daily transactions and are unaware of some cunning schemes designed to capture their personal information. Unsuspecting users are conducting their online businesses with confidence, thinking that their information is secure … while their information is being stolen by illegal digital scanners that send unsuspecting users’ information to cybercriminals. Researchers have projected that cybercrimes and internet scams will become more prevalent as internet and social network usage expand into territories where users are less informed.
The Digital Danger of Online Monetary Transactions
The world revolves around one major universal asset: cash. Cash is remarkably fluid and indispensable. In modern society, physical money is risky to carry around, especially large sums. Indeed, securing large sums of cash when an individual travels long distances is difficult. Physical money is vulnerable and may be lost or stolen. Therefore, online banking provides a convenient way for users to travel the world and have access to their money. Indeed, online banking is an efficient solution for global account holders who want unfettered access to their money. Banking can now be done virtually and is easily accessible from the ease of an individual personal cell phone or laptop. Users can make deposits, withdrawals, transfers, and check account balances at any time. Nowadays, users can use social media to send money to friends and family for services. Remarkably, transactions are made efficiently and smoothly—within minutes—through online digital mediums. Online banking expands businesses, as businesses can easily send paychecks to employees and collect money from customers without ever having to come face-to-face or exchange physical cash.
The Reinvention of Human-Social Connections 
Before social media and the World Wide Web emerged, relations and connections were established mainly physically and in person. The media used for social and business contacts were conferences, meetings, workshops, seminars, car shows, runway modeling, and exhibitions. These events brought people of similar interests together to interact and collaborate. With the emergence of digital social networks, most of those original means of social interaction have been lost or einventted. Social networks have turned the table and provided a new social interaction paradigm. Whereas individuals had to meet in a physical conference room at some distance from their home or work, social networks allow individuals to meet in a virtual conference room in the comfort of their own home or place of business. Further, individuals can meet and interact by just accepting a social network “friend request.” Thus, individuals can engage in events that help businesspeople meet one another and make acquaintances. With the emergence of social media websites such as LinkedIn and Facebook, individuals can make connections easier across industries and borders. Owing to the invention of social networks, individuals no longer need to leave their homes to secure business deals or learn about new business opportunities. Indeed, business opportunities can be easily discovered through social network postings and webinars.
The Effectiveness of Social Networks and Digital Security Challenges
Sanofi Pasteur is one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in the world devoted to manufacturing vaccines. The company implemented social networks within its corporate organizational structure to share information and collaborate across departments. By implementing Microsoft Yammer as their social network platform, the organization enabled the sharing of valuable ideas used to improve product quality. Indeed, this social network system allows information relevant to improving the manufacturing process to originate from any department in the organization and be shared across the organizational structure. In addition, Sanofi uses Yammer for knowledge sharing and corporate communications, as well as for creating shared interest groups with common interests and shared ideas along that line. Also, the company allows executives to engage in discussions with employees across various business segments that lead to business solutions. Notably, employees have connected to Yammer and collaborated to create an automated process that maximizes outputs.
Yammer was built as a social network like Facebook; however, the Yammer social network system is used only for internal business use. Yammer enables interoffice communication. Thus, employees can communicate on work-related projects through the platform’s user-friendly interface. Yammer’s sophisticated features provide an activity feed that shows colleagues’ latest actions and content. Businesses consider this social network system a valuable business tool that connects workers to one platform where they can communicate and collaborate. Sharing information on one page makes it easier to keep all employees informed. The richness of information sharing across departments reduces delays and creates a robust system.
However, according to researchers, organizations that have invested in enterprising social network platforms did not achieve the worker engagement they anticipated due to the reluctance of workers to share their knowledge. Unfortunately, interest in corporate social networks has declined. Instead, the focus has shifted to the potential of chat-based apps like Slack and Teams. These methods have replaced email for routine workplace collaboration and communication.
The introduction of the Slack business communication platform has created a new and easy way for teamwork and collaboration. Slack Technologies gained competitive advantages because there were no formidable competitors in the business chat market. Of course, this market has been expanding with new competition recently. However, Slack combined an intuitive UI with a group and person-to-person messaging, giving the organization a leading edge. Also, Slack allows users to have a measure of control over who can use the resources through the invitation system. Slack has provided a new and fun way to collaborate in the workplace through its many integrated features. In addition, Slack has created an app for mobile convenience. Thus, they can expand the experience of the business chat to a broader audience.
Slack Technologies allows users to integrate various apps on its chat systems, such as Google Analytics, ServiceNow, and SalesForce. Slack has a dynamic and versatile system. Therefore, if its interface cannot perform a user’s desired task, the user may find an app for that task in Slack’s library. Hence, the Slack business chat system is considered one of the most powerful hub applications in the market. The agility of Slack’s system allows users to have access to different applications simultaneously. Furthermore, the Slackbot built-in self-service support feature helps users to navigate the process seamlessly. In addition, Slackbot helps users to organize and streamlines their tasks. Further, Slackbot’s self-service support system helps users access and set up personalized reminders and answer questions about Slack’s business chat platform.
Social networks have made impressive inroads into organizational business operations and have changed the collaboration process. For instance, Microsoft took a similar approach to Slack Technologies and has implemented Teams within Microsoft 365/Office 365, which acts as an important center for workplace dialogue, collaboration, teamwork, videoconferences, and document sharing. This bold technological move by Microsoft is designed to aid workers’ productivity with a unified suite of specialized tools. Expressly, two noteworthy applications unique to Microsoft Teams are the free apps AVA and MyHub. AVA is a remarkable, powerful backup chatbot that can restore lost and deleted content within Office
