# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2017 - First American Data Breach: What Happened?
In May 2019, it was announced that First American Financial Corporation’s website leaked “hundreds of millions” of documents containing the following personally identifiable information:
Security Relevance Score: 8
Word Count: 623
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

First American Data Breach: What Happened?
In May 2019, it was announced that First American Financial Corporation’s website leaked “hundreds of millions” of documents containing the following personally identifiable information:

Social Security numbers
Bank account numbers
Financial and tax records
Driver’s license information and images

The data breach reportedly stemmed from a “relatively common website design error” whereby a company publishes a website URL – which is created for and only supposed to be seen by a specific individual – but has no way of verifying who is actually viewing the information.
In the case of First American, the company allegedly sent customers a URL that contained a unique identifier, such as “Document ID=000000201,” that could be altered to access other documents not meant to be seen by the URL recipient. For instance, someone could simply change “201” in the URL to “202” to gain unauthorized access to the documents and personal information attributed to that ID. It is believed that documents related to mortgage deals dating as far back as 2003 became accessible during the breach.
Currently, proposed class action litigation against First American Financial alleges that the company’s web-based document delivery system “lacked even the most rudimentary security measures” and gave “anyone with a valid URL” access to documents never intended for them. Krebs on Security, a popular website run by former Washington Post reporter Brian Krebs, noted that “even a novice attacker” would have been able to access the documents with ease.
As a result of the data breach, First American Financial customers have been put at risk for identity theft and fraud, including credit card fraud, utility fraud and bank fraud, and have been forced to spend both time and money to protect themselves against the misuse of their personal information.
How Could a Class Action Help?
A class action lawsuit could help recover monetary damages for losses related to the data breach, including, but not limited to, the following:

The cost of credit monitoring, credit freezes and identity protection services
Costs associated with the loss of use of a bank account, such as missed payments, late charges, and fees
Lowered credit scores
Unauthorized charges
Time spent mitigating the effects of the data breach

Discuss the following: What happen here? (1) Was security neglected? (2) Who is responsible? (3) How could the breach be avoided? (4) Was security properly funded? (5) Is management at fault? (6) Should the victims be compensated? (7) Will the incident harm the company’s reputation? (8) Will customers lose confidence in the organization because of the breach? (9) How can customers protect their sensitive data in these cases?
CASE 8
All You Need to Know About LinkedIn Data Breach
Source: LinkedIn Data Breach Millions of Accounts Hacked - IDStrong
Some things come to light only after the passage of time. The LinkedIn data breach is a good example. Initially thought to have only affected 6.5 million users, in 2016, new information came to light revealing that virtually all 170 million LinkedIn members’ account logins were stolen. The new information was disclosed when a hacker named “Peace” offered the stolen user accounts on the dark web for about $2,300 (5 bitcoins). They advertised the loot on the “Real Deal” forum. A copy of the data was obtained from the Russians by Leaked Source and they confirmed with a few users that the LinkedIn username and hashed (SHA1) passwords were correct, and from the initial 2012 LinkedIn data breach. Only 117 of the accounts found in the data had passwords, so the other uses must have connected via Facebook or another login. The hackers claimed to have unencrypted all of the passwords.
When Was the LinkedIn Data Breach?
The actual Linkedin breach took place in June of
