# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2000 - The primary reason cyber-physical systems (CPS) were implemented was to help unify technological applications that used PCs with communication technologies on physical domains. These physical focus domains include aerospace, automotive, artificial intelligence, civil infrastructure, energy, health care, manufacturing, and transportation. The CPS programs were designed to showcase the essence of engineering principles that combine the cyber and physical aspects of critical applications. CPS has emerged into this remarkably vast social network system connecting global society. Currently, numerous users are engaged in social and professional activities on these social network websites. Social network platforms have become a helpful vehicle used by many people to keep their friends and family informed of casual and significant activities and events. The popular social websites that emerged include Facebook, which started in 2004, and Twitter, in 2006. Since then, a host popular social networking websites have been attracting and addressing the needs of all demographics.
Social media websites have expanded to develop their own computer programs and search engines. Social media has tremendous positive aspects in terms of interactions and communication; however, the negative aspects must be noted, such as cyberbreaches and identity thefts. Thousands of cyberthreats constantly occur within social media, affecting approximately157 countries.
Hackers with unauthorized access to social networks users’ accounts and personal data have used this information to steal money from customers’ bank accounts and conduct other private transactions in the customers’ names. Also, hackers have used stolen information and have created malicious online communities that promote terrorism, conspiracy theories, fake news, phishing, state-sponsored, and IoT attacks. Social network users should contact their friends by phone if they feel a link sent to them by their friends is suspicious. Many legitimate social media accounts are duplicated by hackers and may easily deceive legitimate social network friends.
The news media tends to report data breaches of big organizations; thus, the public tends to think that cyberattacks are mainly the problem of big corporations. However, it should be noted that individuals and small- and medium-sized businesses have been attacked and incurred tremendous losses by malicious hackers. Cybercrime is a big business estimated to cost the global economy $6 trillion by 2021. Cybercriminals mainly victimize small companies because of their inability to provide and maintain adequate cybersecurity protection systems.
In general, the reference of small businesses refers to the local mom-and-pop shops in neighborhoods across town. A company is considered a small business with less than 250 employees. As a result, small businesses such as your favorite pizzeria establishment and the many local corner stores in urban centers and suburban neighborhoods are more likely to become cybersecurity victims than giant corporations like Microsoft. However, we are not discounting the threat that large businesses face. Indeed, large businesses like Target Corporation were hit by a megacybersecurity breach in 2013.
The Target Corporation was hacked indiscriminately, resulting in the loss of sensitive credit card information of 41million customers. The breach cost Target Corporation $18.5 million and a tarnished reputation, resulting in revenue loss. Cybercriminals gained access to Target’s networks through a third-party vendor whose cybersecurity system was inadequate to maintain protection for the organization’s assets and its affiliates. In addition, cybercriminals used the network vulnerability of a small HVAC company’s security system to their advantage. In many cases, when a small business experience a massive fraud, it tends to prove catastrophic and leads to the ultimate demise of the business.
In 2017, almost a quarter of small- and medium-sized businesses in the United States had their operations severely impacted by a ransomware attack which caused them to halt most of their business activities temporarily. The temporary business closures caused affected businesses to lose revenues due to downtime and repair costs. In addition, hackers are still gaining access to small business networks by using malicious links that appear as trusted sources.
Problems and Challenges of Social Media
Data breaches have been increasing rapidly and becoming more challenging to contain. Cybersecurity experts contended that the popularity of social media is partly to blame. Many social media users are also new internet users who are not aware of the dangers of cyberspace. The lack of online security awareness has led to gullible activities exposing unsuspecting users to identity theft. Employees who are not computer savvy and who neglect to observe operations’ protocols are sometimes the organizations’ weak link for cybercriminals. The internet of things (IoT) is very convenient and desired by many people due to its ability to handle routine activities; however, IoT has proven to be insecure and a pathway for data breaches. Many companies do not feel obliged to invest significant resources to secure IoT devices because companies do not typically share with the consumers the information that they are gathering and how customers’ information will be protected.
Cyberattackers use stolen personal data for many purposes, depending on their goals. Stolen data may be used to steal money from the victim’s bank accounts; also, the hacker can use the stolen data to leak information on political candidates, nominees for high government offices, and other malicious purposes. Given the growing number of social media users on a global scale, there should be a concerted effort to educate users so that they can have a general understanding of the potential risks associated with online activities. Investigators of data breaches found that management and employee negligence were the leading cause of data breaches. Approximately 47% of cybersecurity managers maintained that human errors, such as the loss of devices and the careless handling of documents by employees, were the cause of the data breaches at their facilities. Some 25% of workers surveyed reported that they occasionally leave their computers unlocked and unattended.
The cyberthreat on social media users is a global problem. The wide-scale use of the technological marvel manifested in online social friendships and interactions has exposed users to people with devious characters and self-interests. Therefore, users should realize that proper defense mechanisms should be observed when sharing information. Internet privileges at the workplace could be a risk. Therefore, it is important to separate work and personal online activities. An employee opening a personal email link could unintentionally infect the company’s network with a virus or malware. Active defense is one of the solutions to prevent data breaches. Active protection includes monitoring your posts on your personal media accounts, observing security protocols, and frequently changing your passwords. Parents should monitor their children’s online activities. Also, children should be schooled about online risks and dangers. Children are vulnerable; thus, they should be monitored lest they fall into the hands of predators with an innocent click of the mouse. Furthermore, not only should parents be vigilant with their children’s online activities, but they should also be mindful of their own online activities as well. Parents should set their online activity standards early to ensure the family’s online experience is safe. Both families and businesses should be deeply invested in cybersecurity safety.
Entrepreneurs should consider cybersecurity as an essential element in their business processes. The neglect of cybersecurity has caused many businesses to sustain cybersecurity damages that have forced them to close their business operations due to their inability to recover financially after a cyberattack. Cybersecurity criminals do not discriminate in their data collection because every piece of data is valuable, and the number of users with access to social networking sites is immense. Therefore, the potential to target personal social network service (SNS) accounts is great. Under such consideration, users should endeavor to protect their online presence with layers of firewalls. Online users should be aware that every new post exposes them to potential cybersecurity threats. The richness of interactions and the concentration of transactions made social media sites high-stakes assets for hackers. Some of the well-known traps that cybercriminals have launched are listed as follows:
Security Relevance Score: 23
Word Count: 3770
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

The primary reason cyber-physical systems (CPS) were implemented was to help unify technological applications that used PCs with communication technologies on physical domains. These physical focus domains include aerospace, automotive, artificial intelligence, civil infrastructure, energy, health care, manufacturing, and transportation. The CPS programs were designed to showcase the essence of engineering principles that combine the cyber and physical aspects of critical applications. CPS has emerged into this remarkably vast social network system connecting global society. Currently, numerous users are engaged in social and professional activities on these social network websites. Social network platforms have become a helpful vehicle used by many people to keep their friends and family informed of casual and significant activities and events. The popular social websites that emerged include Facebook, which started in 2004, and Twitter, in 2006. Since then, a host popular social networking websites have been attracting and addressing the needs of all demographics.
Social media websites have expanded to develop their own computer programs and search engines. Social media has tremendous positive aspects in terms of interactions and communication; however, the negative aspects must be noted, such as cyberbreaches and identity thefts. Thousands of cyberthreats constantly occur within social media, affecting approximately157 countries.
Hackers with unauthorized access to social networks users’ accounts and personal data have used this information to steal money from customers’ bank accounts and conduct other private transactions in the customers’ names. Also, hackers have used stolen information and have created malicious online communities that promote terrorism, conspiracy theories, fake news, phishing, state-sponsored, and IoT attacks. Social network users should contact their friends by phone if they feel a link sent to them by their friends is suspicious. Many legitimate social media accounts are duplicated by hackers and may easily deceive legitimate social network friends.
The news media tends to report data breaches of big organizations; thus, the public tends to think that cyberattacks are mainly the problem of big corporations. However, it should be noted that individuals and small- and medium-sized businesses have been attacked and incurred tremendous losses by malicious hackers. Cybercrime is a big business estimated to cost the global economy $6 trillion by 2021. Cybercriminals mainly victimize small companies because of their inability to provide and maintain adequate cybersecurity protection systems.
In general, the reference of small businesses refers to the local mom-and-pop shops in neighborhoods across town. A company is considered a small business with less than 250 employees. As a result, small businesses such as your favorite pizzeria establishment and the many local corner stores in urban centers and suburban neighborhoods are more likely to become cybersecurity victims than giant corporations like Microsoft. However, we are not discounting the threat that large businesses face. Indeed, large businesses like Target Corporation were hit by a megacybersecurity breach in 2013.
The Target Corporation was hacked indiscriminately, resulting in the loss of sensitive credit card information of 41million customers. The breach cost Target Corporation $18.5 million and a tarnished reputation, resulting in revenue loss. Cybercriminals gained access to Target’s networks through a third-party vendor whose cybersecurity system was inadequate to maintain protection for the organization’s assets and its affiliates. In addition, cybercriminals used the network vulnerability of a small HVAC company’s security system to their advantage. In many cases, when a small business experience a massive fraud, it tends to prove catastrophic and leads to the ultimate demise of the business.
In 2017, almost a quarter of small- and medium-sized businesses in the United States had their operations severely impacted by a ransomware attack which caused them to halt most of their business activities temporarily. The temporary business closures caused affected businesses to lose revenues due to downtime and repair costs. In addition, hackers are still gaining access to small business networks by using malicious links that appear as trusted sources.
Problems and Challenges of Social Media
Data breaches have been increasing rapidly and becoming more challenging to contain. Cybersecurity experts contended that the popularity of social media is partly to blame. Many social media users are also new internet users who are not aware of the dangers of cyberspace. The lack of online security awareness has led to gullible activities exposing unsuspecting users to identity theft. Employees who are not computer savvy and who neglect to observe operations’ protocols are sometimes the organizations’ weak link for cybercriminals. The internet of things (IoT) is very convenient and desired by many people due to its ability to handle routine activities; however, IoT has proven to be insecure and a pathway for data breaches. Many companies do not feel obliged to invest significant resources to secure IoT devices because companies do not typically share with the consumers the information that they are gathering and how customers’ information will be protected.
Cyberattackers use stolen personal data for many purposes, depending on their goals. Stolen data may be used to steal money from the victim’s bank accounts; also, the hacker can use the stolen data to leak information on political candidates, nominees for high government offices, and other malicious purposes. Given the growing number of social media users on a global scale, there should be a concerted effort to educate users so that they can have a general understanding of the potential risks associated with online activities. Investigators of data breaches found that management and employee negligence were the leading cause of data breaches. Approximately 47% of cybersecurity managers maintained that human errors, such as the loss of devices and the careless handling of documents by employees, were the cause of the data breaches at their facilities. Some 25% of workers surveyed reported that they occasionally leave their computers unlocked and unattended.
The cyberthreat on social media users is a global problem. The wide-scale use of the technological marvel manifested in online social friendships and interactions has exposed users to people with devious characters and self-interests. Therefore, users should realize that proper defense mechanisms should be observed when sharing information. Internet privileges at the workplace could be a risk. Therefore, it is important to separate work and personal online activities. An employee opening a personal email link could unintentionally infect the company’s network with a virus or malware. Active defense is one of the solutions to prevent data breaches. Active protection includes monitoring your posts on your personal media accounts, observing security protocols, and frequently changing your passwords. Parents should monitor their children’s online activities. Also, children should be schooled about online risks and dangers. Children are vulnerable; thus, they should be monitored lest they fall into the hands of predators with an innocent click of the mouse. Furthermore, not only should parents be vigilant with their children’s online activities, but they should also be mindful of their own online activities as well. Parents should set their online activity standards early to ensure the family’s online experience is safe. Both families and businesses should be deeply invested in cybersecurity safety.
Entrepreneurs should consider cybersecurity as an essential element in their business processes. The neglect of cybersecurity has caused many businesses to sustain cybersecurity damages that have forced them to close their business operations due to their inability to recover financially after a cyberattack. Cybersecurity criminals do not discriminate in their data collection because every piece of data is valuable, and the number of users with access to social networking sites is immense. Therefore, the potential to target personal social network service (SNS) accounts is great. Under such consideration, users should endeavor to protect their online presence with layers of firewalls. Online users should be aware that every new post exposes them to potential cybersecurity threats. The richness of interactions and the concentration of transactions made social media sites high-stakes assets for hackers. Some of the well-known traps that cybercriminals have launched are listed as follows:

Phishing Attacks: This is a method to gain sensitive information through internet camouflage. People and organizations have suffered millions of dollars because of this illegal activity.
Identity Federation Challenges: This method shares user information across various domains. This involves using data from already created profiles to log in to new sites, where the user sees it as convenient but forgets the repercussions of sharing such information with third parties.
Malware: These are programs set up in the user’s device whereby the user is unaware or hasn’t given consent. Due to its ability to spread quickly, it is known to infect devices quickly (Karri et al. 2010). Besides, AV-Test Institute (AV-TEST 2016) has registered approximately 390,000 malicious programs causing security flaws. Some key examples of malicious software include Trojan Horses and worms. Ul redress attacks (clickjacking attacks). In this case, the user is prompted to open a malicious link. Sites like Facebook have fallen victim to this type of vicious attack. Specifically, such attacks are carried out to cause malicious attacks or increase the online presence of someone or some other page (Potlapally 2011).

The Purpose of Social Media
The popularity of social media warrants strict global cybersecurity surveillance. Maintaining established protocols provides strong possibilities for cyberspace protection. Cybersecurity managers should use forecast techniques to predict potential cyberattacks and prepare counter cyberattack strategies. The introduction of threat models may help to combat cybersecurity threats. A threat model is defined as a procedure used to optimize cybersecurity threats by pinpointing vulnerabilities, defining correct countermeasures, and taking the necessary actions to correct identified weaknesses.
The threat modeling approach is like a SWOT analysis. Both analysis tools identify the organizational system’s strengths and weaknesses so that decision-makers can prescribe adequate corrective measures. The correct implementation of cybersecurity threat models may ensure that every aspect of the network system is protected from new and potential threats. Hackers are constantly developing new tools to breach cybersecurity; therefore, threat modeling provides vital information to counteract possible cybercriminal mischief. Companies that utilize the threat model approach tend to benefit from insights gained from actionable information. The number of students using social networks has been steadily increasing, expanding the territory for more significant risks.
College students are among the highest users of social networking; 72% of college students are on social media, and 45% use social media regularly. Therefore, cybercrimes are common due mainly to the growing amount of sensitive information that could be illegally harvested from this source. Furthermore, technological advancements are trending in the direction where traditional activities are becoming online activities. Thus, more crimes will be committed in cyberspace, so defense and proper measures must be stressed to keep individuals safe.
Some potential issues with social networks are the lack of individual vigilance, failure to secure data storage, use of malicious software, phishing strategies, and denial of service (DOS), commonly known as a DOS attack. Social network platforms should be regulated by governments and inspected randomly several times a year by government-trained cyber inspectors. In addition, individual users and big data custodians should prevent the accidental leaking of sensitive information. Unfortunately, many corporations that once boasted of their secure cybersecurity networks have reported data breaches or have compromised millions of customers’ records. Some big names are Facebook, Twitter, Yahoo, Google, and many more influential corporations and government entities. For example, Facebook had an incident where 267 million IDs, numbers, and names were exposed accidentally, which could easily be an opportunity for hackers to harvest users’ sensitive information.
In addition, a DOS attack is an effort by hackers to flood an online service with invalid responses to block real users. Malware consists of a group of threats such as spyware, viruses, Trojan Horses, and adware which commonly threaten businesses and individual users. Phishing is a method used by hackers to obtain information about users through fraudulent means, such as disguised emails that look legitimate. The previous issues present significant challenges for companies that require online accounts to access their services. Companies risk the loss of customers’ loyalty when their websites do not provide a safe environment for their customers to have a satisfying online experience.
Also, employees are responsible for many cyberattacks experienced by their employers. For example, many employees use their company’s websites to shop and play games during their breaks; in these activities, they may open links and surf websites that have malware, thus, unintentionally exposing their employers’ networks. To reduce the employee’s ability to compromise their employers’ networks, employers have established internet policies that forbid workers from using their personal accounts, such as emails, on the company’s computer or mobile networks. Instead, employees are given accounts for the company, which are to be used for official business only.
Adapting forecasting tools such as threat modeling and SWOT analysis is beneficial in providing forward insights. Data breaches are serious events that have far-reaching impacts. A significant number of users are not aware that they are being monitored 24/7 by hackers. Hackers are waiting for one user error to get into the users’ network. Therefore, constant monitoring of your account is necessary. Governments within cyberspace should ensure that companies are safe from cyberattacks by establishing legislation with harsh penalties. While we stress governments’ intervention in cyberspace protections, individual users are responsible for protecting themselves and being smart about their online activities.
Theory Approach and Application

Strict use of cybersecurity protocols that cover the online interrelationships between suppliers, partners, and customers would increase the protection for those entities. The vulnerabilities faced by many alliances are because of noncompliance with required internet protocols by partners. The sharing of online resources among alliances is necessary to expedite the business processes. The interconnection of the supply chain provides efficiency and seamless operations. Total quality management (TQM) is aligned with cybersecurity.
Total quality management helps attain the organization’s goals as management aligns its activities with safety and satisfying consumers’ and stakeholders’ demands. Corporate leaders should revise their cybersecurity strategies as part of their strategic plans. TQM is necessary for strategic planning because safety and quality are closely related. Cybersecurity protects the quality of a product or service from malicious actors. For example, cybercriminals can ruin the quality and reputation of a product if the product’s manufacturing specification is breached and manipulated.
The supply chain management must incorporate updated security protocols that are consistent with current organizational and information technology changes. The organization’s data centers and their vulnerability to cyberattacks are integral parts of strategic decisions which formulate access policies, device use policies, and employee training. The aim is to secure critical information assets through authorized access. Leadership behavior is crucial in dealing with unknown software and websites. Supervising employee use of their employers’ network is required to prevent online abuse by employees, which may lead to data security compromises. The organization’s leadership will determine the success rate of implementing comprehensive cybersecurity protocols.
Leadership styles may help determine the effectiveness of cybersecurity. For instance, transactional leaders are concerned with guaranteeing regular organizations’ activities and aligning them with the established target. In contrast, transformational leadership strives to motivate employees to improve their performance by encouraging, innovating, and engaging them in future strategic decisions.
Strategic planning is a crucial component of social network security. Planning efforts that focus on determining how to keep users safe and minimize future cyberattacks help to create a stable social network environment for the public. Cybersecurity invasions are a hindrance aiming to limit a company’s production of operational processes. Therefore, management should analyze cyberthreats and implement advanced cyber-strategies as part of the planning process. Cybersecurity breaches increase the chances of competitors acquiring vital organizations and innovations data that could ruin the competitive advantages and influence market shares. The ability to attain a competitive edge in the market may be reduced if the organization exposes customers’ privacy. Furthermore, legal issues could hamper the company’s ability to perform effectively due to litigation costs. Strategic planning can be attained through SWOT analysis, which helps analyze the severity of users’ threats on social networking platforms.
Perhaps the overarching strategies of the company’s cybersecurity efforts could be attained through insights gained on security issues, risk levels, network challenges, and cybersecurity experts. The SWOT analysis can link company performance by evaluating the cybersecurity effectiveness of social networks’ platforms. Safety measures include encryptions using antivirus software, implementing written security plans, securing funding, exploiting the development of cloud computing security, and studying environmental and regulatory concerns that affect data protection protocols. SWOT analysis of the company’s security strategy focuses on strengthening the business processes. The planning process is designed to identify addressed challenges based on designated priority action levels.
Social Network Attack Classifications
In general, cybersecurity attacks are classified into three categories. (1) The first category refers to the first strike, which occurs in the form of organized, unsettling influence, commonly referred to as hacktivism. (2) False agenda is a tactic used by hackers to promote harm by influencing many social media users’ misinformation so that viewers on the company’s platform access links may be affected by malicious content. (3) And theft of favorable circumstances is the next step of attack as the hackers get access to vital information stored on the company’s networks. It has the potential to breach the network’s platform.
Cyberspace criminals exploit the web in search of sensitive information, such as trade secrets, evidence of malpractice, and emerging intellectual property, with the help of network systems. Social media platforms link external and internal business operations. Insider threats are perhaps the most dangerous because of the level of access to private information. Disgruntled employees with privileges have access to vital company information and can trade that information to the highest bidder without being caught.
Many lucrative and active illegal business enterprises operate on the dark web, where sensitive information is bought and sold. Despite the emergence of best practices and business ethics, the dark web continues to flourish. Continual social network innovation is an ideal approach to maintaining cybersecurity. A unified effort with social network providers and individual users may form a force resistant to cybercriminals’ success.
Although employees think that employers’ ban on personal use of workplace internet is an overreach, cybersecurity investigation reveals that the personal use of organizations’ computers and internet resources by employees has led to data compromises. Employees’ use of workplace internet resources to access their social platforms could be a weak link allowing hackers access to the company’s resources. With the reduction in anonymity levels, a connection between employee and company social media accounts can be established. Having this knowledge, hackers could use malware to compromise the office computers, laptops, or smartphones of individuals within the company. Compromised devices create vulnerabilities and open pathways to unauthorized access to sensitive company data.
Facebook creates enormous opportunities for small- and medium-sized companies to attain competitive advantages in the marketplace. However, a balance between innovativeness and cybersecurity is necessary to achieve adequate protection. A balance in relation to cybersecurity can achieve through education, the analysis of the internet of things, and the awareness of privacy threats. Innovations and policies should be aligned with protecting the privacy rights of individuals and the organization. Therefore, companies should secure their networks and mitigate security risks. Information security is the responsibility of big data organizations and individual users; hence, those participants should take reasonable care to ensure that private information does not expose unauthorized individuals.
Social network users should vigorously analyze their information security practices to determine how their practices reflect the expectations and achievements of security protocols and systems. Geographical locations and cultures play an integral role in cybersecurity. Some regions of the world and cultural groups treat cybersecurity with less priority, partly due to the lack of financial resources and educational awareness. A review of 20 Slovene small- and medium-sized businesses’ information security models revealed that their strategies differed from the global standard practices and protocols. The implementation of standard security protocols was meant to handle the dynamic changes that are inherent in cybersecurity. It is counterproductive to keep updating security protocols when users neglect to follow established security plans designed to achieve cybersecurity efficacy.
Social Media Review and Application
Experts asserted that several major risks are associated with social media that affect companies and casual users. A very troublesome risk is hacking and impersonating customers’ accounts. Another risk is account duplication, where users’ accounts are duplicated to deceive the users’ trusted associates and friends. Hackers’ duplication of accounts is a carefully designed strategy because people are likely to share sensitive information with those in their trusted networks. Also is the invasion of customers’ privacy without their knowledge. Trading customers’ private information may expose customers to unwanted ads and advances.
It is certainly no secret that social media has expanded its reach. In 2005, approximately five percent of American adults used social media platforms. By 2021, 82% of Americans had a social network account. People use social media for several reasons, including staying in touch with friends and family. Other reasons include reconnecting with old friends and renewing relationships with former acquaintances. However, many social network users contend that they have too much information, and governments must provide cybersecurity oversight. Despite the risks involved with social media platforms, many users find it difficult to disconnect themselves from social media.
Social media platforms are taking significant steps to protect customers’ information to rebuild customers’ confidence in social network websites. Thus, leaking existing and potential customers’ personal information has become more difficult than 10 years ago, as social network providers made cybersecurity their number one priority. The reason for this intervention is to bolster confidence and increase active usership. However, researchers asserted that teenagers are one of the vulnerable groups of cybersecurity because many teenagers are not aware of the dangers of social networks in terms of data breaches.
A researcher reported that in 2015, one out of eight businesses suffered a cybersecurity breach from business participants who connected with social media. The primary reason for the compromise was that many business owners maintained social media accounts linked to their business networks. Cybersecurity investigators reported that the vulnerabilities in the system were due to the mishandling of social network profiles, such as leaving social media accounts open and unattended for extended periods. The neglect of social media accounts could lead to an undiscovered breach, thus allowing hackers to have long-term access to unauthorized information. To prevent data breaches from businesses channeled through social media, the social media manager should ensure that systems are in place to flag the sharing of credentials, revoke the access of internal users who attempt unauthorized activities, and send an email report to the management team. Additionally, social media is an affordable way of marketing and advertising for many aspiring businesses.
Social media is an effective marketing tool that helps promote nascent business ventures. Statistical analysis showed that 49% of the global population used social media in
