# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2021 - In 2020, hackers stole $162 billion of cryptocurrency. Unfortunately, hackers have been using cryptocurrency to collect illegal gains such as ransom. The total ransom paid by cyberattack victims was approximately $350 million in cryptocurrency. A Black Hat hacker made roughly $900,000 per year. Indeed, the hacking industry is awash with big money. There is no sign that this elaborate criminal enterprise will ever be stopped.
The Hidden Dangers of Firewalls
This text has established that cybercriminals employ many processes to achieve their objectives. Given that most of our activities are on the internet, from personalized shopping to financial and personal services, the accessibility of cyber detection tools is obviously available to internet users. However, many of these cyber protection tools come with the threat of data intelligence, big data surveillance, machine-learning techniques, and artificial intelligence The rich sources of transactions that permeate the internet are being tracked by big data analysis for marketing.
The Limitations of Hackers
Some of the limitations that hackers face are:
Security Relevance Score: 12
Word Count: 1700
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

In 2020, hackers stole $162 billion of cryptocurrency. Unfortunately, hackers have been using cryptocurrency to collect illegal gains such as ransom. The total ransom paid by cyberattack victims was approximately $350 million in cryptocurrency. A Black Hat hacker made roughly $900,000 per year. Indeed, the hacking industry is awash with big money. There is no sign that this elaborate criminal enterprise will ever be stopped.
The Hidden Dangers of Firewalls
This text has established that cybercriminals employ many processes to achieve their objectives. Given that most of our activities are on the internet, from personalized shopping to financial and personal services, the accessibility of cyber detection tools is obviously available to internet users. However, many of these cyber protection tools come with the threat of data intelligence, big data surveillance, machine-learning techniques, and artificial intelligence The rich sources of transactions that permeate the internet are being tracked by big data analysis for marketing.
The Limitations of Hackers
Some of the limitations that hackers face are:

The resistance of firewalls
The difficulty of learning new cyberdefense systems
The inability to access secure systems without human errors
The operation is secret
The limitations of the market
The vulnerability of their business
The difficulty of recruiting

The most substantial limitation that hackers face is users’ resistance. Also, hackers’ ability to succeed with their strategic plans is vastly mitigated by a user population educated regarding cybersecurity. Hackers’ success depends mainly on the ignorance of internet users. The more users are aware of cyber risks, the fewer risks they will take in cyberspace. It is important to note that protection against most hackers does not require sophisticated firewalls. What is needed is the responsible action of individuals and corporate users. Indeed, the hackers’ empire would be drastically reduced if users would observe the following:

Install proven antivirus software programs.
Install firewalls capable of configuring and restricting data traffic.
Follow cybersecurity protocols by applying email filters that trash unwanted emails.
Do not open email attachments until the source is confirmed.

If users adhere to these suggestions, they could remarkably change the landscape of criminal hackers. Indeed, users would find themselves in a position of strength to protect their valuable information assets from hackers. Undoubtedly, the unified and diligent efforts of online users could limit the ability of hackers to gather tradable information.
Chapter Summary
Technological advancements have been an enabler of hackers’ criminal prowess. Hackers are advancing rapidly by accumulating billions of dollars of illegal gains. Hackers’ enterprises could be departmentalized in the following order.

Data identify theft and fraud
Intellectual property theft
National security theft
Industrial spying
Data hostage and ransom

Cybercrimes have impacted the global economy. Many companies have closed their business operations because of the insurmountable costs of the data breaches that they have suffered. Many innocent users have been victimized, and their identities have been stolen, which causes them to incur unbudgeted costs. The emergence of the data economy is due mainly to digital technology. The agility of digital technology helps hackers to find a comfortable space on the dark web where they can exploit internet users with wanton disregard. Because most of our personal data is stored digitally, the risk of exposure is greater than the traditional storage system. Dataveillance is the system used to track everyone on the internet. It is impossible to stop all attacks on users because all major personal transactions have been digitalized.
Reasons and motivations for some cyberattacks.

Web systems that get a lot of personal information: Revenue potential
Government entities that store sensitive information: Revenue potential
Potential to ruin reputations for partisan purposes: Promotion potential
Publish misinformation: Publicity potential
Potential profits: Revenue potential
Tradable information with a quick turnaround time: Revenue potential
Personal vendetta: Satisfaction potential

In this chapter, we have reiterated that the advancement of digital technology creates opportunities for hackers to be invisible while successfully engaging their strategies. The hackers’ networks continue to engage in advanced methods to accomplish the goals of their cybercrime endeavors. Hackers have formed communities where they can share new ideas and skills and conduct joint attacks on specific targets. In addition, hackers are constantly changing their approaches and acquiring new technological tools to access existing and new security firewalls.
Hackers’ success is diminishing as new generations become more aware of hackers’ tactics and avoid traps that were once successful in capturing data. In addition, governments’ legislation with hefty fines and stiff penalties has provided some forms of deterrents. Hackers can now be investigated offline regarding how they earn their income, where they live, and how they pay for their lavish lifestyles. By legal actions, governments can dig into hackers’ offline activities and gain substantial evidence of wrongdoings.
Also, other criminal activities have surfaced from cybercrimes that led investigators to cybercriminals. Governments’ legislation may help protect users’ information assets and provide security for cities, towns, and countries. Cybercrimes are much more dangerous than it seems in comparison to physical crimes because these crimes are committed on the dark web, and perpetrators are seldom caught. Remarkably, cybercrimes are not beyond the abilities of law enforcement as many hackers have been apprehended and paid the penalties of long prison sentences. Hackers are more cautious than two decades ago due to many talented and trained technological expert law enforcement personnel.
Exercise Questions:

The first time the term “hack” was associated with electronic apparatus was in what year?
The early form of hacking began with what system?
In the 1980s, hacking activities grew from modifying electronic toy phones to accessing large computer networks. What was the reason for the growth?
The early hackers focused on businesses, universities, and personal home computers. So why did they focus on them?
What was the intent of the early computer hackers known as White Hat hackers?
What is the emerged new branch of criminal hackers known as?
The Black Hat hackers are unethical and create and spread viruses and break into computer networks for the sole purpose of acquiring illicit gains. Black Hat hackers make their living by stealing and trading sensitive information. Why is it so difficult to apprehend them?
Governments’ resources in law enforcement, such as the Secret Service, have apprehended a few hackers. However, hackers are cleverer than before. Hence, to protect their identities, they operate on the dark web where there are no digital footprints. Write one paragraph about how cybersecurity administrators can protect their organizations against Black Hats hackers.
Cyberattacks may drastically reduce if users would install what component on their computers?
Following cybersecurity protocols, such as applying email filters that trash unknown and unwanted emails, may reduce cyberattacks. Why is it so difficult for users to follow internet protocols?








CHAPTER TEN
Artificial Intelligence: The Role of Human and Machine
Introduction
Many industries have adopted new technological advancements to improve business performance. Unfortunately, new technology has taken over some of the functions that people once did. Artificial intelligence (AI) has displaced many workers. AI has proven helpful; however, the pervasive use of the technology, to the financial detriment of workers, is concerning to the shrinking global workforce. Rather than transfer core business divisions to robots and virtual office assistants, business leaders should seek to find an equilibrium between human and technological systems.
AI is the way of the future. Thus, AI manages air travel, ground transportation, sea voyages, manufacturing of products, lifting and transporting, data recording, banking, surgery, construction, and office assistants. Scholars have expressed that AI engagements are not practical for every task. However, big businesses are using AI to reduce costs and ignore the personal dimension of customer interactions. Although AI is more efficient than humans, the human touch is still integral to business relations. For instance, AI can sift through hundreds of résumés in a few minutes, whereas it would take several individuals much longer to process. Although AI can filter résumés based on configuration and key words, it cannot discern particular idiosyncrasies of the person. Hence, businesses must find an optimal balance between artificial intelligence and human factors.
The Background of Artificial Intelligence
In this text, artificial intelligence is defined as the theory and development of computer systems capable of performing tasks naturally performed by human intelligence. These tasks required specific human attributes, namely, visual perception and voice recognition. Artificial intelligence can be seen from many lenses, such as the systems that think and act like humans in some rational ways. Computers with humanlike intelligence have been the goal of computer scientists since the inception of computer technology. In 1956, John McCarthy of Stanford University invented the term “artificial intelligence.” Interestingly, the field of artificial intelligence has been a scientific exploration for more than two centuries. One of the early fathers of the field of artificial intelligence is the English mathematician and logician Alan Turing. Turing was a major contributor to computer science and artificial intelligence. Other significant contributors include Marvin Minsky of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and John McCarthy of Stanford University.
In an exploratory research inquiry, Turing sought to determine if a machine could be programmed to think. To find the answer, he proposed a test to answer that question. His experiment was known as the Turing Test. The computer was programmed, and the test was administered successfully. Based on the test results, it was concluded that a machine might be programmed to learn from experience, that is, a data input algorithm, which may enable the machine to learn like humans. The Turing Test was a three-person game where a human and a machine interacted to see if the machine would exhibit characteristics of human intelligence. The programmed machine did. Hence, the game indicated that machines could be programmed to learn from experience, like humans (National Science and Technology Council 2016).
Computer scientists have been working on perfecting the science of AI technology. By the 1990s, researchers could advance more on the subproblems of AI and, thus, use AI to assist with human-related problems, such as image recognition, voice recognition, visual recognition, and medical diagnoses. For example, in 1997, an AI supercomputer developed by IBM named Deep Blue won a chess game against world champion Garry Kasparov. Also, an IBM AI supercomputer, Watson, won the TV game Jeopardy against two of Jeopardy’s greatest champions in
