# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2020 - Organizations that do not maintain a cybersecurity plan and do not anticipate cyberattacks by ransomware are usually the organizations that fall victim to cybersecurity breaches. The failure to have a developed incident plan creates a wide cybersecurity gap. Cybercriminals constantly invent new ways to infiltrate users’ networks; they are always searching for security vulnerabilities they can exploit. The overall number of new vulnerabilities in 2019 increased by 17.6% compared to 2018 and 44.5% compared to 2017, according to a vulnerability study (Provendata 2020).
According to a 2019 FBI report, cybercrimes cost businesses more than $3.5 billion in internet-related crimes and damages in the United States. Therefore, business leaders are concerned that a significant amount of their profits are being used for cybercrime-related activities. As such, business leaders have decided to engage in the following strategy:
Security Relevance Score: 22
Word Count: 3705
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Organizations that do not maintain a cybersecurity plan and do not anticipate cyberattacks by ransomware are usually the organizations that fall victim to cybersecurity breaches. The failure to have a developed incident plan creates a wide cybersecurity gap. Cybercriminals constantly invent new ways to infiltrate users’ networks; they are always searching for security vulnerabilities they can exploit. The overall number of new vulnerabilities in 2019 increased by 17.6% compared to 2018 and 44.5% compared to 2017, according to a vulnerability study (Provendata 2020).
According to a 2019 FBI report, cybercrimes cost businesses more than $3.5 billion in internet-related crimes and damages in the United States. Therefore, business leaders are concerned that a significant amount of their profits are being used for cybercrime-related activities. As such, business leaders have decided to engage in the following strategy:

Implement cybersecurity systems and personnel to ensure that their organization and network are secured and able to withstand emerging threats and compliance requirements.
Manage third-party vendor cyber vulnerability risk assessment throughout the supply chain.
Introduce safety methods that keep client and business information secure to avoid possible public unauthorized access that could result in brand damages. Pay for quality protection.
Establish protocols to protect critical infrastructure; create awareness that may prevent damage to critical IT infrastructure that would result in service degradation for customers and other business relations.
Employ strong cybersecurity teams that educate workers that cyberattacks will result in lost revenue due to downtime.
Maintain a strong awareness that the loss of customer confidence in the company equals the loss of profits, reputations, and jobs.

A study by Semafone showed that 86% of people would be less likely to deal with a business after a data breach. Therefore, share prices or market value may fall, and the organization may incur fines for noncompliance with data protection and privacy laws.
The Complexity of Cookies and Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity experts contend that cybersecurity systems cannot substantially protect users’ information due to the open source of cookies. Therefore, the user is the best safeguard against the unwanted sharing of personal data. The pervasive use of cyber-activities has created weak points for information abuse. The cause and effect of complex technological systems may continue to pose security challenges to cyberspace. The behavior of online users will determine the safety of cyberspace. Complex systems cannot effectively manage themselves; thus, a consistent team with expert knowledge is necessary to guide the process to a secure, productive goal. Complex systems often involve unpredictable variables, creating immeasurable challenges for system administrators. Therefore, it is essential to use methods that are adaptive to firewall protections.
Failure to Engage Proactive Managers
In general, management wants information that helps them to make sound decisions. Useable data can be processed and tested for accuracy to ensure the best outcomes. When critical decision-making information is withheld from the management team, it exposes the organization to the operation’s inefficiencies. Therefore, successfully allocating resources to cybersecurity is dependent on business intelligence. Unfortunately, business enterprises are competing with cybercriminals in terms of cybersecurity fitness.
Advanced technology and the lucrative incentives of the dark web have created an unimaginable, entrenched underworld. The resources on the dark web are so vast that ordinary businesses are struggling to protect their data assets against these deep threats in the dark web. Management can react more effectively to an attack when they have the business intelligence necessary to combat it. Once management receives information on potential risks, its administrative efforts can be proactive. A management team unaware of a potential threat may not provide the resources or implement adequate cyber protections.
Complexity in Cybersecurity
Business managers want to invest in economic activities that produce economic value. Therefore, they may gravitate easily to allocate financial resources to noneconomic activities. Cybersecurity budgets tend to be underfunded because they do not appear to be mainstream income producers. Unfortunately, many organizations do not pay serious attention to cybersecurity until they are attacked. In general, that time is too late because, at that point, the damage is severe, and the cost is enormous.
Organizations implementing robust cybersecurity systems before an attack tend to incur less damage. The attitude of managers toward cybersecurity will determine the extent of cyber protection. Therefore, cyber-experts advised that management take a rational decision-making approach to cybersecurity, which suggests that adequate investment in cybersecurity is of utmost importance.
The Consequence of the Failure to Apply Training Tools
The failure to apply adequate training tools to train employees or users to detect computer and internet intrusions could pose serious threats to organizations’ operations systems. Training and cybersecurity-skill development are necessary tools of defense against cybersecurity invasions. Cyberattackers tend to focus on the users of computer systems and internet components that can aid them in acquiring unauthorized access to private information assets. Therefore, it is prudent to make training tools an integral part of cybersecurity systems. In addition, training may help employees understand cybersecurity applications and administration.
Effective Methods of Cybersecurity
Using strong passwords for online transaction protection is always a prudent choice. A strong password could determine whether your online information is safe or vulnerable to cybercriminals. Users must establish secure and strong passwords to protect the privacy of their online accounts. Passwords should be used that are impossible to guess. One of the ways to make strong passwords is to use lowercase letters, uppercase letters, numbers, and symbols. It is a fact that users who use this type of password strategy can create strong passwords that cybercriminals cannot unlock. Also, another approach to creating strong passwords is by making the characters long and avoiding using personal information, such as the year of birth, last four digits of your Society Security number, and family name.
Restricted Access Control
Cybersecurity administrators’ control of critical data assets and the restrictive allowance of access to specifically authorized individuals is a crucial cybersecurity protection strategy. Making access available only to required personnel and restricting users to information that only pertains to their tasks may significantly reduce cybersecurity risks. By restricting employees to information about their work, cyber administrators help prevent the unauthorized sharing of private data. In addition, restrictions, such as limiting the sending and receiving of specific emails, may help organizations to avoid spam attacks. Of course, securing your facility with locks prevents unauthorized entry and provides added security to organizations’ data and physical assets. Physical security may deter intruders from entering your facility and disabling critical security systems, thus, creating an opportunity to breach critical data hosting equipment.
Firewalls a Gatekeeper of Security
Firewalls are advanced security systems that prevent unauthorized access to users’ computer networks and other mobile devices. One of the key features of firewalls is that they prevent users who do not have internet connections from wantonly connecting to other users’ legitimate internet accounts. In some ways, firewalls act like a security officer or gatekeeper. Firewalls are the primary guard against unauthorized access and the number one shield against cyberattacks involving data, software, and computer equipment. Even encrypted data for transmission need the security and defense of firewalls. Firewalls provide that extra defense that makes the users’ experience more satisfying. Users are confident when they know they are operating in a safe internet environment.
Some Types of Technology Used to Run and Manage Cybersecurity
Context-Aware Behavioral Analytics tools entail using advanced behavioral analytics to observe suspicious transactions that cybercriminals may use to distract cybersecurity administrators. For instance, this technology is used to monitor mobile location tracking that tends to log in to several accounts from cities that are not familiar. Another technology is Behavioral Profiles technology which is used in cybersecurity to monitor the change in employee behavior. For example, if the employee’s behavior differs monthly, it could be a potential security issue.
The New Generation Breach Detection Technology
Technology is one of the most dynamic forces in the new generation data breach detection system. The next generation data breach detection technology is designed to merge behavioral analytics and machine learning to identify data breaches and trace the location of the breach. Data breach detection analysts seek to determine what happens when the hacker is inside an organization’s system instead of focusing on the actions that led to the data breach. The strategy is to focus on the matter at hand so that your technology resources can be maximized.
Virtual Dispersive Networking
Virtual Dispersive Network (VDN) uses military techniques in its security delivery, such as rotating random radio frequencies. This type of technology, when applied to cybersecurity, tends to divide the message into several parts, then encrypt the parts and route them in different procedures and independent paths. Thus, the ability to track and capture pertinent data is complicated.
Early Cybersecurity Warning Systems Applications
Sensory technology has provided a remarkable level of alertness and secret information gathering. Sensors can detect physical, chemical, and biological properties, then analyze and convert those properties into readable language. Therefore, sensor-guided early warning systems tend to create an algorithm that will determine the websites and servers targeted by hackers, giving cybersecurity administrators a heads-up to implement resistant strategies.
SAML and the Cloud
Internet and web users have largely operated in the dark for decades. However, due to the emergence of Security Alert Markup Language (SAML), that mystery has been removed because this system lets external applications and related services know whether the user is authentic or an imposter. This technology merges SAML with encryption and intrusion detection technologies to manage corporation databases and web traffic.
Active Cyberdefense Measures and Protocols
Data breaches are becoming harder as advanced technology finds a tighter grip on cybersecurity. The use of firewalls, sensors, and operational protocols has established active defense measures that track and even attack hackers at the same time. Cybersecurity program developers invented active cyberdefense measures to counteract the aggressive behaviors of cybercriminals.
In general, cybersecurity is an essential aspect of cyberspace. Business organizations that use computers and the internet as a mode of communication and storage of data should consider the value of cybersecurity as a necessary investment. When cybersecurity is neglected, hackers are successful in their endeavors. Organizations prioritizing cybersecurity tend to maintain a high reputation among their customers, partners, and alliances.
Summary Application of Cookies
Earlier, we spoke generally about cookies. Internet cookies refer to a string of texts stored on a user’s browser to create a familiar pathway for future use. Hence, cookies identify users and allow for efficient browsing through websites. Efficiency is achieved when cookies remember the web pages the user visited on prior occasions. Therefore, with cookies, users can utilize the website features without typing and searching. In addition, cookies facilitate authentication as they identify when a user is logged into a website, thus, allowing the user to use the functionalities offered.
Notably, cookies are mainly used to track website activities. Every time a user visits a website, the web server allows cookies to act as the user’s identification card. In the future, when the user returns to the website, the browser passes that cookie back to the server and opens the prior interests of the user. Interestingly, web servers can collect information regarding the web pages that the user used the most and recognize which pages are gathering the most repeat hits.
Also, cookies are a great help with online shopping. Online stores often use cookies that record any personal information that is entered into their database and use that information for marketing and shopping purposes. For example, cookies help remember items in the user’s electronic shopping cart so that the users do not need to reenter information each time they shop for the same item. In addition, marketers use their servers that are cookie-outfitted to deliver personalized web pages to customers. Nowadays, cookies are applied in online marketing campaigns to run advertisements that target users whose web-search information is stored. Because marketers know the users’ preferences through the cookies’ data collection, organizations can run personalized ads that appeal to the selected target users.
Cookies: Limitations and Weaknesses
There is no question that cookies have a lot of benefits. But they have their underlying weaknesses and limitations. For cookies to be functional, they must be accepted by the user and be active. If the user declines to accept cookies while on a web page, the cookie cannot monitor the user’s browsing activities. Therefore, the user’s interests and preferences remain private. Additionally, users can disable their devices to prevent cookie pop-ups. However, when users disable cookies, they limit their browsing experiences that would be personalized to their needs and the convenience of remaining logged into their frequently visited websites. Also, the limitation of cookies may depend on their type. Notably, the length of time cookies stay active and useful is a general consideration for users.
Two of the types considered are session cookies and permanent cookies. Session cookies are designed to be active only during a single website visit and automatically delete when the user closes the computer’s web browser. Interestingly, session cookies, otherwise known as transient cookies, do not collect information from the user’s computer. However, they store information relevant to the user’s website visit. In addition, session cookies do not require access to the user’s device’s browsing data because they gather public information from the user’s web search.
Persistent cookies operate on their own time frame. They differ from the session cookie because the data gathered by the persistent cookie is stored in the device’s web browser for future use. Data collected by persistent cookies are stored on the user’s device until deleted by the user or expires. Persistent cookies have an expiration date. Therefore, cookies will not efficiently function if they are frequently deleted or rejected. Such actions prevent cookies from creating consistent patterns, which are necessary to develop an organized personal experience for the user.
Limitations of Cookies on a Qualitative Basis
In marketing and data research, the greater the cookie access, the greater the information collection. However, it should be stressed that cookies could utilize a significant portion of the user’s storage space on the HTTP stream when loading a web page and on the computer that loads and stores it. The good thing about advanced technological systems is that most browser platforms directly limit how many cookies one domain can run. The Request for Comments (RFC) established by the internet engineers’ task force is the experts who established the minimum standard. According to the RFC standard, a browser would have no limits on the size and number of cookies the browser can handle. However, to meet the RFC specifications, the user agent should support at least 300 cookies and at least 20 cookies per unique host or domain name.
Browser developers have manipulated cookies to circumvent the limitations by making smaller cookie programs that can gather different information without exceeding the size specification. Also, the size of cookies has caused some management information system administrators to enforce cookie limits on their browsers. Thus, limit the space a single domain can use for cookies. For instance, if the administrators set the browser limit to 4,096 bytes per domain, and the user sets 50 cookies, then the total amount of space those 50 cookies can use is 4,096 bytes.
Some browsers do not have size limits. These browsers include:

Chrome
Firefox

Costs of Cookie Limitations
We have embraced digitalization as an integral part of our daily online activities; we have embraced privacy as well. Thus, we should be mindful that digital privacy involves different costs. These are not only for the hosting websites. They impact the users’ online activities over the long term regarding what data is collected, stored, and disseminated. Web service providers may realize cookies’ costs when their customers opt out or block the browser’s cookie settings. The operation of cookies has established protocols; therefore, organizations must adhere to privacy policies as they add cookie programs to their websites. Hence, customers must give consent or allow cookies access to their devices.
Advertisers pay organizations to run their ads via cookies. Therefore, when customers decline cookies, the organization cannot get paid. One of the primary reasons for installing cookies is to collect marketable information that benefits the organization. Academic researchers alluded that a single customer could value at $8.58, and depending on the organization’s size, that could calculate a loss in thousands of dollars if customers decline cookies.
The right to users’ privacy may cause them to choose their privacy when using digital platforms. Thus, selecting the privacy option may have an economic and social effect on the web service providers, as free access to websites depends on revenue from advertisers, which cannot happen if customers deny cookies access. In this growing technological environment, online privacy is paramount. However, privacy may become an issue regarding how privacy protection increases information costs. The nonrequirement of privacy consent tends to lower costs as free information allows advertisers to market customers and generate sales revenues.
Cyber Security: Limitations
Sharing of information is the essence of the digital age. Without the sharing of information, digital technology has no value and purpose. Digitalization of data enables mass media to communicate and share information at a faster rate than traditional forms. Digitalization of information occurs on a real-time basis through the following media:

Person to person
Person to organization
Organization to person
Organization to organization

Therefore, individuals and organizations should handle information responsibly to protect information privacy and avoid data breaches. The digitalization of information results in the speed of information delivery. Hence, it requires more effort to protect personal information due to the enormous speed at which digital information travels. The structure and quality of cybersecurity systems designed to protect digital data are limited to the financial resources and technical competence of organizations and individual users. The maximization of cybersecurity resources involves various factors, including management structure, policy implementation, and policy enforcement. If protocols are ignored in any phase of the cybersecurity structural procedure, the whole system may collapse.
Cybersecurity Weaknesses
In general, computer network weakness or vulnerability is a weak point that can be exploited to cause damage or create opportunities for data breaches. A cybersecurity system is more vulnerable when the attacker is an insider, considering that an insider may have critical information and know where to access that information without searching. In many cases, it is undetectable. There is no doubt that outside attackers are dangerous and can inflict serious damage on organizations’ data assets. However, insiders know the organization’s inner workings and can put the organization in peril. Both inside and outside enemies want to take advantage of the vulnerability of the organization’s information system that they target. As information gets more valuable and can be sold quickly, owners of information assets are forced to increase their cybersecurity budgets. With the excessive use of digital media, cybersecurity is a necessary component of all devices, including home appliances. Many householders do not think they should invest in cybersecurity although their homes are full of smart appliances with rich personal data sources.
The established fact is that hackers use many different techniques to infiltrate users’ networks and increase the risk of data exposure. For iteration purposes, hackers’ successful methods to breach users’ computers and web-based networks include malware, phishing, hidden backdoor programs, denial-of-service (DoS), and unpatched security vulnerabilities. Additionally, as highlighted in previous chapters, cybercriminals’ available tools are Trojans and adware.
Computer viruses are effective because they can attach themselves to clean files and infect them and spread to other files on the users’ networks or mobile devices. Viruses may appear as an executable file (.exe), thereby deceiving unsuspecting users as a legitimate operating program. Trojan viruses can also disguise themselves as legitimate software and sometimes hide behind useful, reliable software such as Adobe and other programs that help users process, convert, and share information.
Cyber researchers found that denial-of-service (DoS) accounts for 37% of cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities. DoS tends to target business websites and disrupts operating functions. When DoS infect a website, the website may run slower and eventually prevent legitimate users from accessing the website. Also, hackers set DoS to target networks, mobile devices, and a single operating program. Primarily, hackers do not use DoS, a cyberattack tool, to steal information. Instead, hackers use DoS to slow down and take control of the targeted website for malicious purposes.
Cost of Cybersecurity Exposure
The iteration list of cybersecurity costs when data exposure occurs includes the following:

Type of industry: Company size and the types of data an organization handles are essential factors. The larger the company, the more likely the company may handle and store sensitive information; hence, the larger the cybersecurity budget.
Risks associated with third-party security accounts: In known cases of cyberattacks, for example, the Target Corporation cyberattack, the attack occurred through a third-party account. Allowing a third party to assist in the protection of your company’s systems can put your company at grave risk. This is because vulnerabilities may exist in the third-party network that can be used as a weak point to infiltrate your network.
Legal and investigative costs: When breaches occur in an organization, the organization has to hire a team of lawyers and cybersecurity experts to investigate the breach to satisfy government compliance and assure the public whose information has been impacted. In addition, a breach will result in substantial government fines and potential lawsuits from customers and partners.
Business and partnership loss resulting from data breaches: Government policies require that the affected organization present a full public disclosure to all stakeholders once cyber exposure occurs. The report is to be comprehensive and provide details of the findings and potential remedies to assure those impacted. Generally, once a breach occurs, the affected organization will suffer financial losses in revenue and investments.
Insurance coverage utilization: Cybersecurity administrators stated that 51% of businesses with cyber risk insurance used their coverage to offset expenses when there was a data breach. Typical costs include public relations, cybersecurity consulting, and legal services. Also, 36% of the insurance proceeds are used to pay impacted victims, and 30% defray regulatory fines.
Server configuration issues: Cybersecurity experts report that 19% of malicious attacks on organizations are due to poor server configuration for cloud computing. Poor server configuration for cloud computing has increased the average data breach cost by approximately $500,
