# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 2020 - Overall, the women’s workforce in the technology sector stands at around 19%. Clearly, the tech sector has much to do in recruiting, training, and retaining female employees.
By September 2021, healthcare data breaches were higher than in the whole year of 2020, an increase of 17%. (Breaches from January to September 2021 were 1,291, and the entire year of 2020 was 1,108). The data compromised for Q3 2021 was 160 million. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act’s protection strategies were incapable of sufficiently protecting healthcare data. As a result, the healthcare system has a cache of personal information about individuals that could be detrimental if accessed by identity thieves and abused.
The international community has developed systems to govern cyberspace and specifically monitor cyberattacks through entities such as the United Nations, NATO, the Council of Europe, and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. Cybersecurity strategies should seek to be ahead of cybercriminals. Hackers have developed advanced mechanisms which must be countered effectively. Cybersecurity administrators have been working diligently to develop and maintain counterstrategies; however, official measures to address cyberthreats are limited due to the challenge of maintaining consistency within a multiuser system.
Exercise Questions:
Security Relevance Score: 13
Word Count: 2256
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

Overall, the women’s workforce in the technology sector stands at around 19%. Clearly, the tech sector has much to do in recruiting, training, and retaining female employees.
By September 2021, healthcare data breaches were higher than in the whole year of 2020, an increase of 17%. (Breaches from January to September 2021 were 1,291, and the entire year of 2020 was 1,108). The data compromised for Q3 2021 was 160 million. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act’s protection strategies were incapable of sufficiently protecting healthcare data. As a result, the healthcare system has a cache of personal information about individuals that could be detrimental if accessed by identity thieves and abused.
The international community has developed systems to govern cyberspace and specifically monitor cyberattacks through entities such as the United Nations, NATO, the Council of Europe, and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. Cybersecurity strategies should seek to be ahead of cybercriminals. Hackers have developed advanced mechanisms which must be countered effectively. Cybersecurity administrators have been working diligently to develop and maintain counterstrategies; however, official measures to address cyberthreats are limited due to the challenge of maintaining consistency within a multiuser system.
Exercise Questions:

How does identity theft differ in modern times compared to medieval times?
Identity theft has always been a part of society and has existed for over 2,000 years. So what were some of the early forms of identity theft?
Is the wide-scale use of the internet responsible for the rapid increase in identity theft?
Why is it imperative for internet users to change and update their login credentials regularly?
What are some of the risks that internet users may face when using ATMs and kiosk machines?
Hackers are constantly producing new techniques that capture sensitive data sold in the unofficial market to corrupt organizations seeking to gain competitive advantages over their competitors through illegitimate means. So how can cybersecurity administrators prevent hackers’ success?
How did Target Corporation get hacked, and how can other organizations avoid similar occurrences?
Cyber-experts examined four crucial security management dimensions that would strengthen organizations’ cybersecurity. List and discuss the security dimensions.
What is the role of hackers in geopolitical events? Who benefits?
Why are women struggling to get into major cybersecurity management?

Summary

Identity thieves try to access users’ data in many conventional and unconventional ways. They use complex maneuvers like infiltrating patches in software programs and simple methods such as email links. It has been established that cybersecurity has many potential risks, such as skimming, phishing, SMS-Phishing, juice jacking, and public Wi-Fi. Identity crimes have a long history dating back to the early history of civilization. The emergence of the internet and the World Wide Web has contributed to the prevalence and pervasiveness of identity theft in recent times. The globalization of world systems and technological advancement have created more opportunities for identity thieves to exploit unsuspecting individuals and organizations.
The difficulty cybersecurity experts encounter is how to find an effective solution to prevent cyberthreats. Mainly because it is so challenging to detect cyber-traps, given their high levels of sophistication. Thus, users should be vigilant and take ownership of their personal information when engaging in online transactions. For users to enjoy online security, they must adhere to standard operational protocols. Modern societies have come to rely on the internet for general and routine activities; thus, the escalation of usage, especially with frequent purchases, has further exposed users to criminal elements that lurk behind the dark web. The lucrative underground market supported by the dark web makes the illegal harvesting of users’ information appealing. Although identity theft is a federal offense, offenders are not deterred in their endeavors to find various ways to steal and market users’ information for personal gain.
Cybersecurity is paramount because it helps to build confidence and maintain the integrity of businesses across all industries. Society may continue to advance when cybersecurity assurance is improved. The TSA pipeline security guidelines were created to provide a security structure for pipeline owners and operators to use to develop their security plans and programs. The development, education, and availability of efficient cybersecurity guidelines necessary to improve cybersecurity curb the intervention of identity theft and internet threats.
Internal and external hackers have explained that there are systemic risks that need to be addressed in the development of cybersecurity consistency. For example, after JPMorgan’s servers were hacked, no evidence existed of fraudulent activities pertaining to the data breach. The compromised data consisted of customers’ contact information, including names, addresses, phone numbers, and email addresses. Professionals need to increase their attention to the positive and negative effects of addressing cybersecurity and internet threats when attempting to improve cybersecurity consistently.
There have been apparent limits to the action that can be taken to properly establish measures to prevent identity theft and cyberthreats through cybersecurity systems. Many steps have been employed to enhance security. The challenge cybersecurity experts face with implementing some of these measures is the risk of privacy invasion. Several strategies have been designed to bolster cybersecurity protection to improve cybersecurity. However, much more work must be done to keep ahead of cybercriminal strategies. The pressure to focus greater attention on service security issues may result in too much time spent on technology and neglect other relevant cybersecurity components such as awareness marketing.
Cybersecurity administrators have recognized the magnitude of the risks that internet users face as they input their personal and unique information online to increase and maintain internet transactions’ efficiency. As a result, there is a heightened sense of urgency for cyberspace security protection. Cyberspace is the new frontier for modern civilization. The potential for legitimate economic gains is as great as the potential for unlawful criminal enterprises. The wholesale lifting of unsuspecting internet users’ data through megadata breaches must be addressed with immediate remedies. The frequent data breaches continue to expose users’ privacy and endanger their personal safety. The economic resources generated by the World Wide Web are sufficient to protect every user. Hence, greater insistence on data protection tools is necessary to ensure that big data collectors adequately protect their customer information assets.
The twenty-first-century cybersecurity environment can change readily due to the availability of advanced technological systems. Data protection tools can adapt quickly to provide first and second layers of security on data storage systems and facilities. When users know that their data are protected, they feel more confident to conduct online business than when they are in doubt. Furthermore, cybersecurity is an integral part of internet users’ privacy since users’ most delicate information is in the custody of their healthcare and financial institutions. Therefore, big data custodians should bear legal and ethical responsibilities for data breaches.
The internet is an open source; therefore, users are required to use the internet with caution. The level of risk that users face is unknown in estimation, given the gravity of the far-reaching effect on users. Thus, the measures to prevent internet threats must be comprehensive, thoughtful, and intentional. Cyberspace is inherently difficult to secure due to a wide variety of factors. One factor posing some challenges to cybersecurity is the lack of awareness and the reluctance of users to relinquish some of their privacy rights. The ability of malicious actors to unleash their attacks from any part of the globe is a current reality. The new normal is the linkages between cyberspace and physical space. Cyberspace and physical space are coexisted in many intricate and vital ways for mutual sustainability. Therefore, reducing vulnerabilities and consequences in this enormously complex global cybernetwork is difficult without a unified alliance.
In light of the risk and potential consequences of cyberattack events, it is incumbent on governments, the private sectors, and stakeholders to form a unified alliance to strengthen cyberspace’s security and resilience. The national government should treat cybersecurity as a vital Homeland Security mission. A standard global cybersecurity protection law should be enacted and approved by world governments to protect users since we are operating in a global space. Developing a robust cybersystem capable of detecting and thwarting identity theft would greatly decrease and prevent cybertheft. 







CHAPTER FOUR
Social Network Platform: A Source of Cybersecurity Invasion
Introduction
Throughout the last decade, the world has seen exponential growth in technological advancements. Cell phones have evolved from singular-purpose communication devices to versatile mobile computer networks. Furthermore, humans are gradually replaced as the lead employees as robots take the lead and humans assume the role of robot assistants. Robotic machines are now the dominant leader in many business operations. Machines have their own assistants. This phenomenon will most likely continue over time. In the same way that companies have found an inexpensive and efficient new way to produce and sell their products, companies have also discovered another inexpensive and efficient way to reach and influence potential new customers with artificial customer service agents.
Social media networking platforms like Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter amass millions of users. Companies worldwide use social networking platforms for convenient advertising and business promotions. Given that no obvious upfront costs are using social media to promote small entrepreneurial endeavors has become popular. Social media is an effective method of advertising for many nascent entrepreneurs. However, while social network platforms provide innumerable economic benefits, they also have some disadvantages, as they are rich sources of cybersecurity invasions.
Many software developers offer free firewalls that can protect users from unauthorized access. Free firewall protection offerings create a safer cyber environment, leading to safer software products for developers. Free firewalls are an effective means to protect customer information. Social media users tend to provide sensitive and private data to social networking applications, which could cause severe harm if breached. Cybersecurity experts found that social networking service platforms are not secure enough to protect users’ data. For example, Facebook has been hacked and has exposed millions of records to hackers. Despite technological advancements, Facebook is not as secure as it should be. Many users may assume that their personal data are adequately protected because they trust the service provider. Users must take responsibility for handling their sensitive data and safeguarding their online footprints. However, service providers such as social media organizations are also responsible for protecting their customers’ private information.
Academic scholars maintain that many internet users, including social network users, are not computer savvy. Many users only know the basics, such as how to log on and interact with their friends. They are oblivious to the dangers that exist on social media platforms. The senior citizen population is a prime example of users who have fallen into the non-savvy group. Some senior citizen users, especially those who do not work directly with modern technology, know little or nothing about how to protect their data on social media or nominal online transactions. Thus, seniors are more likely to expose their data to cybercriminals. In 2017, the US government reported that Russian hackers hacked into a computer used in the Pentagon by a senior citizen worker. While some seniors are technology savvy, many lag behind the technology curve.
Cybersecurity experts reported that highly sensitive data was breached due to the senior citizen worker’s errors. Social media has grown rapidly due to the escalation of users. The world’s population has become interconnected due to the World Wide Web and social media platforms. Social media networks are extremely useful and provide a cache of services that bring the global community together. Social media networks allow businesses to promote their product offerings by creating their company’s personal page, where they post marketable information.
A company’s customized page on social media network platforms can be used to spread awareness and attract new customers for the company’s product or service. Social media platforms allow businesses to interact closely with their customers. Intimate interaction may help customers to develop brand loyalty. Using social media networks to promote businesses comes with risks, such as data exposure. Social media networks tend to have a high level of cybersecurity vulnerability. One of the negative experiences that a business owner could have on a social media network is the event where the business page could be hacked, duplicated, and used for illegal purposes. A malicious attack could come from a former disgruntled employee. A negative event could temporarily impair the business’s reputation.
Social media network users should be mindful of how they share their sensitive data on social media platforms. Scammers posing as social media customer service personnel could get unauthorized access to users’ data and wreak irreparable harm. Social media network users could be tricked into providing sensitive information to hackers disguised as company representatives. One of the reasons why these tricks work is that users are likely to give data to those they trust.
Social media inactive accounts and profiles are invitations to cybercriminals. When small companies create an online profile and remain inactive for extended periods, hackers tend to target these small businesses because they are likely to have a rich source of usable information. Cyberattacks on small businesses are difficult to handle, given their limited resources. Companies must disperse a considerable amount of company resources into running, maintaining, and monitoring their social networking company and personal accounts. The lack of maintenance and ineffective scam prevention tools have escalated the cybersecurity costs of some small companies and thus resulted in the loss of market shares and economic profits.
Background of Social Media Platforms

The term “social networking service” (SNS) is an online platform where people connect to build social and professional relationships by networking and sharing information. Social networking began in 1997 with Six Degrees, a social media site that failed in
