# Security Chapter Extract
Book: Wesley Palmer - Cybersecurity--Data Protection and Strategies (2025, Outskirts Press) - libgen.li
Chapter: 1 - As a result, cybercrimes in the healthcare industry have become prominent within the past decade and have progressively developed into a massive cyberthreat.
Cybercrimes pose a serious threat to the healthcare industry. In addition, data breaches remain a serious concern for users. Although political leaders have been aware of cybersecurity threats since the early development of internet technology, no real efforts were made for counter cybersecurity in the early stage of this internet phenomenon. However, recent efforts to develop regulations and policies have been able to curb the vast threat hiding in the dark web. In response, governments have begun to develop national cybersecurity strategies to outline how they intend to counteract the cybersecurity invasion.
Cybersecurity and Millennials
Millennials who grew up in the information age are very adaptable to modern technology. They regard the internet as commonplace. Many of them are oblivious to the dangers of cybersecurity. Although some millennials consider following users’ guidelines important, many disregard procedures and safeguard policies designed to protect their private information. Security techniques are implemented to protect internet users as they conduct their daily business activities in cyberspace. Many online users took their online privileges for granted until their sensitive data were breached. The issues surrounding cybersecurity became more ingrained throughout the cyberworld as more businesses began to utilize the web to extend their reach among their target markets. The more consumers log in and share their personal information online, whether through business or social media interactions, the greater the risk of cyberattacks. Millennials who follow online safety measures help themselves and the businesses they conduct business with to provide safe and reliable cyber protection. Every internet user wants peace of mind, but peace of mind depends on every user who decides to surf the internet within the ambit of online cybersecurity guidelines.
Cybersecurity and Organizations
Cyberspace has expanded the operating space for many organizations, political leaders, and ordinary people. This borderless internet phenomenon allows people to have open access to worldwide connections, activities, and information. Unfortunately, there are endless opportunities for both legitimate and illegal activities in cyberspace. While entrepreneurs are busy turning ideas into big money businesses with substantial economic gains, criminals known as hackers are busy scheming how to access these entrepreneurial enterprises and steal valuable business secrets to sell on the dark web. What is dangerous about criminal hackers’ activities is that they can work in the dark, that is, behind the scene, and steal sensitive secrets for a long time before their thefts are discovered. In many cases, stolen strategic business secrets are sold to the competition, which the competition uses to gain competitive advantages. Public organizations such as government agencies that house classified government documents have been breached by criminal hackers for lucrative gains, while the data owners suffer inconvenience, stress, and financial loss.
Limitations to Counter Cybersecurity
Inventions of all types, regardless of their comprehensive testing and development, are imperfect in many ways. Safety tests may help to reduce malfunctions and accidents. However, positive test verification cannot guarantee that a fatal accident will not occur. Every business enterprise faces potential mishaps. An award-winning medical procedure may not save a patient despite the best efforts of an outstanding surgeon. Technologists and governments have invested significant financial and technical resources into cybersecurity to provide safe cyberspace. Nevertheless, cybersecurity breaches remain a significant challenge. The digital and intangible nature of cyberattacks has made intervention extremely difficult. Cyberattacks come in many varieties, such as phishing attacks, malware attacks, and denial-of-service (DoS) attacks.
Cybersecurity is a global phenomenon that requires a unified international effort to contain. No organization is fully secure or immune from cyberattacks due to the extensive reach of cybercriminal tactics. Hackers have devised a wide divergence of cybertactics that made it very difficult for organizations to be confident that their counter cybersecurity strategy can fully protect them from cyber invasions. The rapid expansion of healthcare data in electronic formats has multiplied the risk of data breaches. Healthcare data appeal significantly to the interest of cybercriminals due to the highly sensitive and valuable nature of the data contents. In addition, the vast network of health professionals, social workers, and insurance providers make the healthcare field vulnerable to potential compromises. The motive for hacking is varied in scope. Some hackers attack organizations for financial gain, while others attack to disrupt the organization’s computers and technological networks. Disruptions may cause organizations to miss deadlines, delay production, lose investments, and negatively impact profitability.
Cybersecurity experts contended that almost any medical device connected to a web-based network could be hacked. Such medical devices included MRI machines, heart defibrillators, and electric wheelchairs. Academic researchers have discovered that the implanted heart defibrillators of patients can be hacked and result in deaths. Hence, healthcare organizations have an enormous responsibility to take proactive and holistic measures to ensure adequate cybersecurity preparedness. The coordinated and vigilant efforts of cybersecurity hospital administrators may help frustrate cybercriminals’ efforts and lessen unauthorized access to health organizations’ computer networks.
Maintaining a consistent schedule to frequently update new software with the necessary patches and fixes required to ensure data security is a significant need for many vulnerable organizations. Cyber researchers examined regular computers to IoT devices used in the health field. They found that IoT devices have weaker internal security protections that are not easily patched or updatable. This is an example of one major limitation within the realm of cybersecurity dangers associated with hospitals. The entire network is exposed when these medical IoT devices are left unpatched. It becomes highly vulnerable to potential attacks, and IoT vendors are notorious for implementing poor security measures, such as weak encryption protocols that barely meet compliance standards, leaving these devices as easy and attractive targets for hackers.
Other limitations include many companies’ expenses and budget allocation to deter attacks. Cybersecurity budgets are low and are being cut in many cases. In addition, many businesses have no formal cybersecurity plans or a dedicated leader assigned to counter cybersecurity. In several hospitals and large healthcare systems, CISOs are lower in the reporting chain than desirable. Only 4% of the organizations have steering committees to evaluate cybersecurity investments and make strategic decisions. In some cases, cybersecurity spending is being made at the C-level without consulting users. The lack of budget and resources are crucial limiting factors that must be addressed.
The board of directors of organizations can take inexpensive actions now to mitigate the potential costs of major attacks in the future by developing a cyberattack response team. Unfortunately, there is a lack of fundamental understanding and a lack of consistency in that organizations’ management personnel do not persist with the technological advancements necessary to maintain strong defenses against cyberattacks.
Exercise Questions:
Security Relevance Score: 21
Word Count: 3691
Extracted: 2025-06-13 23:41:15

---

As a result, cybercrimes in the healthcare industry have become prominent within the past decade and have progressively developed into a massive cyberthreat.
Cybercrimes pose a serious threat to the healthcare industry. In addition, data breaches remain a serious concern for users. Although political leaders have been aware of cybersecurity threats since the early development of internet technology, no real efforts were made for counter cybersecurity in the early stage of this internet phenomenon. However, recent efforts to develop regulations and policies have been able to curb the vast threat hiding in the dark web. In response, governments have begun to develop national cybersecurity strategies to outline how they intend to counteract the cybersecurity invasion.
Cybersecurity and Millennials
Millennials who grew up in the information age are very adaptable to modern technology. They regard the internet as commonplace. Many of them are oblivious to the dangers of cybersecurity. Although some millennials consider following users’ guidelines important, many disregard procedures and safeguard policies designed to protect their private information. Security techniques are implemented to protect internet users as they conduct their daily business activities in cyberspace. Many online users took their online privileges for granted until their sensitive data were breached. The issues surrounding cybersecurity became more ingrained throughout the cyberworld as more businesses began to utilize the web to extend their reach among their target markets. The more consumers log in and share their personal information online, whether through business or social media interactions, the greater the risk of cyberattacks. Millennials who follow online safety measures help themselves and the businesses they conduct business with to provide safe and reliable cyber protection. Every internet user wants peace of mind, but peace of mind depends on every user who decides to surf the internet within the ambit of online cybersecurity guidelines.
Cybersecurity and Organizations
Cyberspace has expanded the operating space for many organizations, political leaders, and ordinary people. This borderless internet phenomenon allows people to have open access to worldwide connections, activities, and information. Unfortunately, there are endless opportunities for both legitimate and illegal activities in cyberspace. While entrepreneurs are busy turning ideas into big money businesses with substantial economic gains, criminals known as hackers are busy scheming how to access these entrepreneurial enterprises and steal valuable business secrets to sell on the dark web. What is dangerous about criminal hackers’ activities is that they can work in the dark, that is, behind the scene, and steal sensitive secrets for a long time before their thefts are discovered. In many cases, stolen strategic business secrets are sold to the competition, which the competition uses to gain competitive advantages. Public organizations such as government agencies that house classified government documents have been breached by criminal hackers for lucrative gains, while the data owners suffer inconvenience, stress, and financial loss.
Limitations to Counter Cybersecurity
Inventions of all types, regardless of their comprehensive testing and development, are imperfect in many ways. Safety tests may help to reduce malfunctions and accidents. However, positive test verification cannot guarantee that a fatal accident will not occur. Every business enterprise faces potential mishaps. An award-winning medical procedure may not save a patient despite the best efforts of an outstanding surgeon. Technologists and governments have invested significant financial and technical resources into cybersecurity to provide safe cyberspace. Nevertheless, cybersecurity breaches remain a significant challenge. The digital and intangible nature of cyberattacks has made intervention extremely difficult. Cyberattacks come in many varieties, such as phishing attacks, malware attacks, and denial-of-service (DoS) attacks.
Cybersecurity is a global phenomenon that requires a unified international effort to contain. No organization is fully secure or immune from cyberattacks due to the extensive reach of cybercriminal tactics. Hackers have devised a wide divergence of cybertactics that made it very difficult for organizations to be confident that their counter cybersecurity strategy can fully protect them from cyber invasions. The rapid expansion of healthcare data in electronic formats has multiplied the risk of data breaches. Healthcare data appeal significantly to the interest of cybercriminals due to the highly sensitive and valuable nature of the data contents. In addition, the vast network of health professionals, social workers, and insurance providers make the healthcare field vulnerable to potential compromises. The motive for hacking is varied in scope. Some hackers attack organizations for financial gain, while others attack to disrupt the organization’s computers and technological networks. Disruptions may cause organizations to miss deadlines, delay production, lose investments, and negatively impact profitability.
Cybersecurity experts contended that almost any medical device connected to a web-based network could be hacked. Such medical devices included MRI machines, heart defibrillators, and electric wheelchairs. Academic researchers have discovered that the implanted heart defibrillators of patients can be hacked and result in deaths. Hence, healthcare organizations have an enormous responsibility to take proactive and holistic measures to ensure adequate cybersecurity preparedness. The coordinated and vigilant efforts of cybersecurity hospital administrators may help frustrate cybercriminals’ efforts and lessen unauthorized access to health organizations’ computer networks.
Maintaining a consistent schedule to frequently update new software with the necessary patches and fixes required to ensure data security is a significant need for many vulnerable organizations. Cyber researchers examined regular computers to IoT devices used in the health field. They found that IoT devices have weaker internal security protections that are not easily patched or updatable. This is an example of one major limitation within the realm of cybersecurity dangers associated with hospitals. The entire network is exposed when these medical IoT devices are left unpatched. It becomes highly vulnerable to potential attacks, and IoT vendors are notorious for implementing poor security measures, such as weak encryption protocols that barely meet compliance standards, leaving these devices as easy and attractive targets for hackers.
Other limitations include many companies’ expenses and budget allocation to deter attacks. Cybersecurity budgets are low and are being cut in many cases. In addition, many businesses have no formal cybersecurity plans or a dedicated leader assigned to counter cybersecurity. In several hospitals and large healthcare systems, CISOs are lower in the reporting chain than desirable. Only 4% of the organizations have steering committees to evaluate cybersecurity investments and make strategic decisions. In some cases, cybersecurity spending is being made at the C-level without consulting users. The lack of budget and resources are crucial limiting factors that must be addressed.
The board of directors of organizations can take inexpensive actions now to mitigate the potential costs of major attacks in the future by developing a cyberattack response team. Unfortunately, there is a lack of fundamental understanding and a lack of consistency in that organizations’ management personnel do not persist with the technological advancements necessary to maintain strong defenses against cyberattacks.
Exercise Questions: 

Privacy and security will always be the principal focus of most organizations, especially in this present time, where all information is secured digitally. So what is the conflict between privacy and cybersecurity?
What role does big data play in cybersecurity?
Why does counter
cybersecurity strategy requires collective action?
Why does the author express that many millennials may be oblivious to the dangers of cybersecurity?
Sharing information online has its inherent risks; what are some potential dangers?
Why does it require a unified global effort to contain cybersecurity?
List two reasons why the health industry in cybersecurity is vulnerable.
List three limitations of cybersecurity and how businesses should handle them.
Is someone who does not use the internet at risk of internet-related activities?
What is the potential danger of wearing medical devices that are internet-network based?

Summary and Conclusion

Cybersecurity is a critical issue today with the rise, advancement, and use of technology in almost every business sector. The healthcare sector, transportation management centers, and several small- and medium-sized businesses are at risk from cybersecurity threats. People who use social media are also continuously at risk due to the interaction of third-party applications and possible manipulation of identity. The failure of management to act could result in a tremendous loss in investments. The fundamental strategy to combat cybersecurity is knowledge and awareness. Organizations’ leaders aware of the potential dangers of cyberthreats may find it urgent to implement systems to counteract cyberthreats. The reality of cybersecurity indicates that internet users will continue to be at risk until a unified comprehensive fix can be found.
For a nation and organization to be prepared for cybersecurity, substantial planning must be held at the highest levels of government. National universities, with their vast resources of researchers, can establish a framework for developing a counter cyberattack workforce capable of handling present and future threats. Small islands like the Dominican Republic need to develop a cyber education system to raise awareness which may help reduce cybersecurity attacks. Once a framework is established, it is imperative to have an annual review of cybersecurity regarding attacks or the attempted status within the nation to tackle cybersecurity issues.
The fact that billions of people interact with others through social media should necessitate a robust, secure system. Unfortunately, the lack of secure social media platforms has contributed to the cyber victimization of users. Cybercriminals have wreaked havoc on unsuspecting internet users by invading their privacy and stealing sensitive information. Social media platform management needs to recognize the immensity of the threats and invest in deep cybersecurity. The fundamental aspect of human social interaction should not be done through fear and apprehension. In addition, users should be aware, recognize cyberspace’s dangers, and act cautiously.
Cybersecurity should not be treated as optional. Instead, it must be a part of the design of every product, database, and electronic communication, which will play a significant role in securing our future, particularly in social media education. The education system can spread the awareness that would lead to more responsible use of online transactions. As it relates to business organizations, it is essential to understand that as a business grows, so should the cybersecurity system. In today’s business environment, cybersecurity is an ever-evolving area. Businesses must be equipped to ward off unauthorized access. Also, as the business grows, so does the risk of data breaches. The stakes are high. Companies are responsible for protecting customers’, vendors’, and employees’ data from being compromised. The failure of a business to secure its data could result in losses that could affect future investment by third parties.
Overall, it comes down to internet users and their awareness of the cyberthreats that we face today. Considering that internet users are most susceptible and vulnerable to attacks in any industry, including health care, an organization must raise awareness and competency of all its members through regular and effective training programs. To halt the cybersecurity problem, cyber administrators must take the initiative to implement systems that will reduce or prevent cyberattacks. Senior management should be actively engaged in all aspects of cyber-governance, including planning, implementation, and monitoring of cybersecurity systems.
Finally, the more e-commerce occupies digital space, the greater the incentive for cybercriminals. Therefore, concentrated efforts should increase sales and gain competitive advantages on the ever-flowing currents of change. The issue of cybersecurity is not a mere conjecture. Recent developments in networking and cyberspace have greatly benefited the global community; however, the rapid growth of cyberspace has also contributed to unethical practices by lawless individuals who seek an opportunity to use technology to exploit others.







CHAPTER THREE
Identity Theft and Internet Threat to Users in the Cybersecurity Environment
Introduction

Identity theft has been a troubling problem before medieval times. During the eighteenth century, identity theft increased due to the escalation of business transactions driven by the Industrial Revolution. The stealing and altering of people’s records for illegal use is a significant enterprise in the underground market. However, in the 1990s advanced technological age, identity theft expanded to the internet. The emergence of identity theft on the internet has negatively impacted users and created a cybersecurity challenge. The Romans established laws for forgery and falsifying documents (c. 80 BC), which indicated that identity theft had been around for over 2,000 years. Criminals have found ways to forge another individual’s personal information and access business organizations’ networks through fraud. Identity theft has become a rapidly growing threat in global cyberspace.
Identity theft has always been a part of society. In the 1500s, England enacted laws against forgery. In the 1800s, criminals would harm innocent people and steal their identities to evade laws. In the early 1900s, young people in the United States created fake IDs and used them to access adult entertainment and purchase tobacco and alcoholic beverages. Identity theft is also prevalent in the political arena. In many countries, voters’ identities were stolen to cast votes in general elections.
With the emergence of Google Maps, an individual location can easily be shared. It is prudent not to share your location unless it is necessary. Also, people should only use personal security services from trusted professional software companies. Further, internet users should use strong and unique passwords for each online account. It is helpful to set up a secondary confirmation for your login. Finally, to protect your identity, it is imperative that internet users not allow their credit card information to be stored on business organizations’ websites.
Identity theft is taken seriously by the United States; thus, the US government developed a cybercommand unit to protect the country’s national security interests by focusing on cyber operations. The financial industry is particularly vulnerable because of its lucrative data source. Primarily, the banking industry is facing increasingly severe cybersecurity threats by cybercriminals. Modern technology advancement has helped cybercriminals devise evasive methods to access business organizations such as banks that offer a wide range of services online. As a result, online banking is relatively secure but still fraught with cybersecurity challenges.
The emergence of cloud data storage has become significant due to the need for a large data storage capacity. The importance of proper cloud data management and how to protect the cloud data system from cybercriminals is the priority of cyber administrators. The security of the cloud is vital due to the increased use of internet cloud storage for personal, business, and government information. The government uses the internet to conduct official business within many government agencies. Also, the government uses cloud computing to conduct business with foreign governments. Hence, cloud computing security is very vital for national security purposes. In addition, cloud computing infrastructure must be secured due to the vast storage and exchange of confidential information.
Furthermore, a level of complexity exists in big data processing primarily because, traditionally, data processing is not compatible with large-scale data processing. Also, large volumes of data create opportunities for higher risks of data theft. Therefore, heightened awareness is of utmost importance since many users are unaware of how their personal information can be stolen.
There are numerous ways that cybercriminals gain access to users’ information. One way is using a skimming device, which is done by using a skimmer that can quickly scan financial information from your bank and credit card once it is attached to an automated teller machine. Experts suggested some ideas that would help customers prevent these cyberthefts. Awareness is the first tool in your tool kit. Before you insert your card, look carefully around your environment to ensure that there is nothing suspicious. Ensure that the ATM machine you use is located in a reputable organization with a sound security system.
To protect your information from cyberthieves, you should regularly update internet protocols. Information is valuable, and if cybercriminals get access to confidential information, they will use that information for their own selfish gains. Furthermore, cybercriminals are using SMS-Phishing as a deceptive method to trap unsuspecting users. SMS-Phishing is when someone sends a text message to a person that may look like it came from a legitimate business when, in fact, it was sent from a person who is trying to gain access to your personal information. Cyber phishing is now rampant. Hackers are sending emails to users with links that seem authentic. However, these links are designed to steal financial and personal information. In addition, hackers have developed a technique known as Juice Jacking, which occurs when individuals charge their phones. This cybercriminal technique accesses users’ phones through the USB data/power cable. Finally, Internet users should be aware that public Wi-Fi is sometimes manipulated by hackers and deceive users who think they are on a legitimate internet line while they are, in fact, on hackers’ networks.
All these potential risks mentioned are of critical importance to internet users.
Background

In the early centuries, robbers used the identity of deceased people for impersonations. Robbers get access and privileges to commit crimes by impersonating an individual. Also, impersonation helped criminals to avoid law enforcement and punishment. The emergence of new societal paradigms created sophisticated identity thieves. The new identity criminals perform their illegal activities by breaking through virtual internet platforms instead of breaking through the windows of homes. Incidents of identity theft escalated drastically following the emergence of the World Wide Web.
Cloud data management is a central challenge for each sector of society. The cloud offers lifetime storage with unfettered availability to users. However, personal data are stored on several hardware devices in physical locations. Hence, stored data could be lost if the physical device gets damaged. Therefore, cloud administrators have established elaborate and comprehensive backup systems to deal with unforeseen eventualities.
In the 1990s, when the internet began to increase in popularity, users were elated with its efficiency and reliability. However, with these attributes, the internet also provided opportunities for cybercriminals. Hundreds of internet users lost their identities as hackers hacked into their networks and stole confidential information. Due to the lack of storage space on mobile devices, cloud storage has become the best option for storing personal and private information. Therefore, cloud data management is vital, whether it is for personal, national, or international purposes. Cloud data storage management personnel need to properly monitor, maintain, and secure cloud computing.
Identity thieves employ many techniques to steal users’ identities. One of the primary targets of identity thieves is social media platforms. Cyberbreaches in various social media platforms include almost 2 billion Facebook users, 1 billion YouTube users, 700 million Instagram users, 350 million Twitter users, and 200 million Reddit users.
Many cybercriminals access social media platforms primarily to steal sensitive data from unsuspecting online users. Cybercrimes such as phishing, hacking, and identity spoofing have created tremendous hardships and inconveniences for users who must change their online credentials to protect their assets. Internet threats lead society to prepare for cyberattacks and safeguard users’ personal and confidential information. Therefore, it is essential to establish a strong security foundation on cybersecurity to counter cybercriminals effectively.
Online fund embezzlement is a lucrative enterprise for cybercriminals. Online banking is a prime source due to the vast array of ATMs that are loaded with cash. Therefore, developing a dynamic cybersecurity system for banking activities is crucial. The need for rigid cybersecurity spans the banking system as well as key government agencies that host confidential information. National security requires that classified information is kept out of hackers’ reach to prevent leaks that could undermine a country’s national security.
Internet users should always be cautious when using kiosk machines. Using a unique password for different online accounts is the best practice. Also, mobile internet users should be careful when they log on to public Wi-Fi or USB kiosks. Internet users should use power outlet sources only to charge their phones and other electronic devices. By following these users’ protocols, internet users can prevent and reduce cybercrimes.
Nations should collaborate and engage a unified cybersecurity policy to protect users’ information and prevent chaotic global consequences among different industries. This will allow for the broad use of authority to persecute offenders. Recommendations for a user’s data security include credit monitoring, frequent passwords change, two-step authentication methods, periodic self-regulation on companies, and caution when using public network systems. The government should also update the laws on the internet and enforce them strictly as deterrent measures.
The internet and its applications have become the center focus due to the effectiveness of the internet in terms of global utilization. The positive benefits of the internet are outstanding. Nevertheless, challenges are significant because a new form of criminal enterprise has developed: cybertheft. Cybercriminals have been using the internet to execute fraudulent activities and putting hundreds of users in jeopardy. Cyber researchers have estimated that approximately 15 million users in the United States have had their identities used in fraudulent transactions each year. Furthermore, the financial losses to users totaled about US$50 million. Additionally, cybersecurity experts alluded that approximately 100 million Americans have had their personal identities placed at risk of identity theft each year due to careless handling and poor cybersecurity protections.
Challenges

Identity theft has increased rapidly as the usage of the internet expands. The increase in identity incidents prevails because many users did not know that their identities were stolen until months after the theft had occurred. Identity theft is difficult to detect; thus, the primary focus should be prevention. Online transactions create opportunities for hackers to steal sensitive data and confidential information due to the requirement to input personal details when signing up or making purchases. 
Identity theft impacts users severely, causing untold pain and stress as users struggle to repair their identities. Correcting public records such as bank accounts and credit cards tend to trigger high emotional reactions and produce anxiety. In addition, identity corrections are, by nature, time-consuming. It could take an identity theft victim seven hours to one year to correct fraudulent transactions incurred by identity thieves. Cybersecurity researchers found that 41% of identity theft victims may experience sleep disturbances, and 29% may develop physical effects, primarily headaches, heart palpitations, profuse sweating, and stomach issues. The warning is users should be intentional about their online transactions’ safety. All efforts should be made to take all necessary precautionary measures to prevent victimization.
One of the challenges with identity theft is that users have enormous confidence in cybersecurity safety mechanisms. Although cybersecurity provides many safety components, users are still faced with identity and internet threats. For example, cybersecurity administrators reported that the financial services industry experienced 83 million cybertheft-related events in
